-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/1ziqnj/higher_power_question_kind_of_unusual/

I've struggled with alcoholism for more than a decade and I recently started AA but I'm having a problem with the "higher power" facet...I'm typically a very strong atheist but I feel there's an innate human need to worship something or someone and look for guidance. In that vein I've developed a higher power. It's a certain figure of note with whom I have a pretty developed worship complex but his celebrity doesn't matter. My backup higher power is a very unknown individual but the same problem exists in her case...My problem is that this figure in question is himself an alcoholic. He is undeniably the only higher power I have in my life but he personally has very well-publicized alcoholism issues. As I brought up my only option for a "backup" higher power is also an alcoholic...I'm asking if this is a problem that can't be overcome or if it's possible to look to an alcoholic as a higher power when overcoming alcoholism. I don't feel it's possible to acquire a new higher power as my basis for worship is very limited to the specific characteristics this individual possesses (and it's not like you can just decide to pick up a new god in a day). Should I stick with my current higher power or should I focus on finding a new higher power to whom I should look for guidance?
----------immediate responses--------

To begin with the literature of this program makes it very clear and simple that AA does not demand that you believe anything. That includes god. All that is required if you to make your beginning is willingness to accept that there is something more powerful than you that is capable of relieving your problem with alcohol. That being said it is difficult to work this program with another person as your higher power. Many if us have come to a point where human power has failed us. Having another person for a higher power places your reliance in something no less fallible than yourself. ..Turning my will and my life over to the care of god as I understand him simply means that I continue to seek spiritual progress by working a program. I do not define my higher power because that would limit it to my current concept of what he could be and destroy any possibility for growth. I simply try to live a principled life based on the principles I have learned in this program. Work the steps and trust the process with an open mind and you will find the power you seek that can relieve you of your problem. 
Why not turn you will and your life (actions and outcomes) over to the actions steps of AA instead?  Good Orderly Direction.  Science cause and effect that sort of thing.   Where the body goes the mind follows.  You can act your way into better thinking.  You can act your way into feeling better.  You can act your way into living a better life.  And you don't have to believe in a sky wizard to do it (although there are some placebo effect benefits to doing so :))  There are a lot of good people in AA but they're all flawed.  The collective wisdom of the entire fellowship is an incredible resource to tap into.  Don't miss out on that.
Your higher power needs to be two things: #1 not yourself #2 stronger than alcohol.  It can change overtime but in order to stay sober you need to fulfill those requirements. 
This has already been said but I wanted to give my support: in my experience you do not need a fully-formed conception of a higher power to begin to work the steps. ..I am powerless over alcohol..Alcohol is a liquid..There are things more powerful than liquids..There are things more powerful than me...I do not need to understand what those things are. I just need to know they are there that they do exist. Those things which I do not and cannot fully understand are my higher power :]
I definitely agree with you OP. I didn't figure they were pushing religion but it's just a little off-putting to read through the steps like that you aren't alone in that one. ..This was something I heard in relation to self-harm (cutting etc) but alcoholism to me feels pretty similar. Pretend that whatever you do to / put into your body happens to an infant maybe even yourself as an infant. Does that baby deserve to have anything done harmful to it? No and neither do you.
