-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/26dsp6/important_test_of_my_sobriety_this_week/

As of today I've been sober for 54 days which is a new world record. Every day is uncharted territory for me now. I've been going to meetings since early January and until my previous relapse I was sober for 37 days. ...This week I have a week off from work and these have been traditionally particularly dangerous times for me - often involving going away staying in cheap hotels ending up drinking enough vodka to seriously harm any normal person. Doing that was never my intention but it's always ended up being that way. That's what happened on my last relapse. I was intending to visit a theme park but came back 7 days later after spending the entire week in blackout. ...For some reason I had my big book with me when I was away during that relapse and for some reason I got it out and started reading it (and listening to it on a podcast when reading became too much of a struggle). It sunk in. One of the few things which I do remember from that week is looking into the mirror after struggling to keep down some vitamin B tablets and actually saying out loud "look at yourself" - I witnessed first-hand for the first time that I was an alcoholic of the hopeless variety which it talks about in the book. ...I got a sponsor and bought the big book back in January. I thought I'd made it - I had done everything that was asked. The problem is that I didn't read the book or call my sponsor. He didn't call me either. For this I am eternally grateful. I needed to go on my own journey to fully understand what step 1 was talking about. I'd had my rock bottoms - those were why I was in the rooms but I hadn't quite finished learning just how powerless I was and am. ...Since then I have been actually working the program. I have been calling my sponsor (though not often enough) calling other alcoholics trying my 90 in 90 reading literature praying in the morning (though I'm still not very good at that) and going through the steps. I'm feeling better physically and mentally. Life is still tough and definitely not beyond my wildest dreams yet but it is manageable. I even enjoy and look forwards to going to meetings now!...I will be going to at least one meeting a day next week perhaps visit some in different towns and cities. I hope that I can go along to my home group on Friday and proudly announce that I have 2 months. I've been warned that the disease will talk to me and taunt me into going back to the bottle because the days will not be filled with work. I'm confident that I can - right now I don't want to drink. I do have an alcoholic mind however so I'm ready for this week to be a challenge. ...I just wanted to write all of this down so that it's real and I've acknowledged the danger. Thanks very much for reading :) 
----------immediate responses--------

