-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/27bqij/struggling_with_alcohol/

I'm 30 years old becoming more and more self destructive regarding alcohol.  I used to hate everything about alcohol but somehow through the years I've become such a piece of shit drunken bastard...I'm responsible enough to where if I have work or school on a given day I won't drink before I go drive there or drive anytime drunk/buzzed for that matter.  But after school or work forget it.  I walk in and immediately go find whatever bottle is around.  On days I don't work or go to school I'm up by 6:30-7 (I'm an early bird) and already drunk by 8-8:30.  ..I go through at least a 12 pack a day and if there's liquor in the house even liquor I hate (like gin) it's going down at the same time.  I live with my girlfriend and I'm hurting our relationship with this behavior.  She drinks too but with much more control; some wine here a margarita there.  I also smoke about a pack and a half a day (but only 4 cigs or so today and yesterday as I'm trying not to be such a PoS). ..I smoked pot every day for 8-10 years and once I stopped for personal reasons this started.  So maybe I'm just replacing the pot with alcohol or maybe my tastes changed.  I honestly would start smoking pot again if it meant I could quit drinking.  ..I feel like I don't enjoy being myself anymore.  I'm in school for computer science/programming.  I used to play my guitars every day as an outlet and for the past few years or so they just collect dust with the exception of random nights.  I would love to play more to take myself away from this.  I was a much happier much more likable person when I played music and was smoking.  Being 30 is what scares me though;  I don't want to risk any legal trouble with pot at this age for the sake of my mental stability or happiness even though I really do think it balanced me out (chemical inbalances and such).  I'm in Austin TX and I mean some kid is facing life for hash brownies near here.   ..My sister has 3 degrees and obviously our parents (still together) are super proud.  I'm not jealous in any way because she deserves everything she's worked extremely hard.  They tell me they're proud of me too(because they're just awesome like that) but I would love make more of my life for THEM.  I just want to straighten my life out so when the time comes I can return all my parents' love and support for me and take care of them how I know they deserve...I guess I'm just looking for some advice from folks who have been here before.  Hope this wasn't too long and thanks for reading if you made it through.  
----------immediate responses--------

Lots of us have been there before. You are definitely not alone. The best suggestion I can give you is to go to a meeting and ask for help. ..There is a way out and even though parts of it are uncomfortable it leads to a life that is better than I could have ever imagined. [You can find meetings in Austin here.](http://www.austinaa.org/locator/index.php) ..Give it a try and post some updates if you feel so inclined. Good luck!
Welcome to this sub. We are glad you are hear.  I don't think I can list all the things I gave up to drink.  Guitar playing  yep friends  yep family  yes and yes dreams of a future  yes yes and yes.  Toward the end one might say I was living to drink because that's all I did.  Life went on without me...It wasn't always like that.  I had a great job a wife and son. I had all the stuff that many people have and some stuff that few people had.  I drank pretty often and often too much but I had it well under control or so I thought.  You see I thought alcoholics had problems.  They got arrested or went to the hospital therapy or all of the above. They hid in the shadows drinking out of brown paper bags.  I had a position of importance. I traveled. I had the respect of coworkers and clients.  I knew important people.  What I didn't have was the vision to see that these were all slipping away.  I'd lost interest in most everything and the only ambition I had was to get through the day so I could drink.  Drugs were part of my story but I'd given those up after a time.  They were too much of a hassle and getting them was too unpredictable.  When I gave up the strong stuff I went through withdrawals but once that was done I still had liquor to depend on.  It was cheap easy to get and socially acceptable.  By and by I began blacking out.  Functioning without knowing what I was doing and apparantly I was doing a lot!  It wasnt long before I was asked or to return to every bar and restaurant in town.  Including an ice cream parlor!  No big deal.  I found a new town!  It wasn't long before I was up to my old game.  I didn't drink and drive because I didn't need too.  I could drink all I wanted in the comfort of my own home and the only fights I got into there was with my family.  The blackouts still came.  I was still busy enough it seemed because I could be found snoozing away in my front yard where my clothing was I couldn't tell you.  The neighbors and passers-by didn't much care for me and it embarrassed my wife to no end.  It isn't any wonder she started looking for options that didn't include me.  In an effort to smooth things over I promised I'd stop drinking.  I hadnt occurred to me the I couldn't.  I made it a few weeks and was desparately unhappy and angry.  The week after that my wife actually pushed a drink into my hand.  Apparently I was easier to be with when I was drunk.  Another few years passed and my drinking got worse. Instead of buying the stuff I liked I'd drink pretty much anything that came in a bottle.  Beer took too long so it was only hard liquor and that in great quantities.  I'd go through a quart or more of whiskey gin vodka or tequila an evening. It is a marvel that I didn't die of alcohol poisoning...That great job I had? I managed to keep it but I'd run the business into the ground so I had to let of employees who'd worked for me for decades.  I would have let go of myself too but my boss wouldn't hear of it.  In fact I got a raise and I felt like shit for getting it.  That very day I vowed that if I lived through the night I would check out Alcoholics Anonymous the next day.  I knew nothing about it other than I expected it to be a room full of drunks who were as miserable about not drinking as I had been when I tried...Here's the kicker though. The room was packed full of drunks just like me.  Many of them shared what their lives had been like and I heard my story over and over again.  What was missing from my formula was the fact that there was no misery to be found.  These people weren't drinking and they were happy about it.  What's more they were willing to show me how they did it...That was almost twenty two years ago.  I haven't had a drink since.  My life is embarrassingly good now. All I had to do was quit quitting and follow the simple directions...You'll find quite a few meetings in your area. Pick one and go.  You will find what I did too.  I'd lay money on it.  I will also wager that you'll hear a lot of things that you won't see the point of and that's fine too.  If you really want it you'll be given a second chance at life.  The program is simple but it isn't necessarily easy.   The one thing for certain is its totally worth it.
I agree. Check out www.simeetings.com. Go to a meeting. You don't have to talk just check it out. They're about an hour long. Step 1 - " I admit I'm powerless over alcohol and my life has become unmanageable. "
Thanks for the replies folks it's appreciated for sure.  I guess I've avoided going to a meeting because everyone tells me they want you to buy into religion which I don't want to do.  On the other hand I guess if everyone went around basing their opinions of things off of other people's opinions there wouldn't be very much original thinking going on...
Check out /r/stopdrinking for excellent information and support...You might want to have a chat with a doctor about quitting. Alcohol withdrawal is nothing to mess with.
