-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/2jydyr/im_starting_to_relapse_after_going_through_a/

Long story short a man I thought was maintenance almost choked me to death in my bathroom at the age of 20. For some reason he stopped I survived and he is in jail now.  I handled it really well for a while but I think that was just because I was in denial about my mental state.  But not I find my self drinking more and more and I need some advise on how to cope without alcohol and how to resist the urge to have another drink. 
----------immediate responses--------

It sounds like you might be suffering from post-traumatic stress a very real and potentially very serious mental health condition. I would suggest seeking counseling or other mental health services. Depending on your area and situation you may be able to find services through school a local crisis line a local domestic violence shelter (many of them do offer services for women recovering from trauma of all kinds not just DV. Or they can help refer you to other providers). You may also be able to access resources as a crime victim - some justice systems have victim's advocates for example. And of course many communities have counselors in private practice that you can find in the phone book...Since you're posting in r/alcoholicsanonymous I'm assuming you are open to trying the AA program. If you search for alcoholics anonymous and the name of your city/town you should be able to find a list of meetings fairly easily. Larger towns might also have an Intergroup office; if you need help getting a ride to a meeting or just have questions you can call them. You might want to consider starting at a women's only meeting (I'm just guessing you're female) as that might feel a little safer than a mixed-gender meeting. I have met many AA members who have traumatic experiences as part of their personal stories - you would absolutely not be alone in that. However I have personally found that while AA allowed me to get sober I needed to get professional help in dealing with some of my underlying issues that contributed to my drinking and using. There is no shame in that...If you want to talk one-on-one feel free to PM me. Take care and please be gentle with yourself.
I had PTSD too.  Working the 12 steps took care of some of it and a few years ago I took a course and discovered how to use meditation to help alleviate the symptoms.  I highly recommend taking a meditation course and learning how to use it to treat PTSD as part of your Step 11.  
Going to AA &amp; therapy &amp; talking to your doctor &amp; talking to your parents &amp; talking to a good friend &amp; changing what you do on a daily basis might be worth a try.
If you want to stop drinking Alcoholics Anonymous can help.  We are not qualified to diagnose or treat other issues but we've got a solution to the drink problem if you want it.  ..Our book suggests that elimination of our drinking is just a beginning.  We needed action to stay sober and sometimes that action requires resources beyond our program.  Many of us benefited by taking our issues to a professional who was qualified to receive them.  ..My advice would be find an Alcoholics Anonymous group in your area and get to some meetings.  If you can identify with what you hear we can help.  Get a copy of our book Alcoholics Anonymous and read it through.  If you want what's in it the directions to get it are there.  Many of us found that we needed professional help with other areas of our lives.  A good doctor or therapist can provide input and direction.  Don't hesitate to see one.....
Another vote for AA coupled with specific PTSD counseling. AA has been treating at least one of the effects of PTSD alcoholism since WWII before PTSD had a name. A common 'side-effect' of sobriety is learning how to deal with issues other than drinking...My primary sponsor was one. To the best of my knowledge his only 'treatment' for his PTSD was AA as there  were no other available. ..Now there are specific treatments so use both...Meet [Ralph](https://pdf.yt/d/YgOL5sTxhbl_OL6Y).
No bad situation in my life was ever improved by adding alcohol. ..I'm sorry for your trauma; you didn't deserve it.  Don't drink.
Thanks everyone. I'm currently seeing a councilor and I'm thinking about going to AA but I'm really busy. What advice from AA have you received that helped the most?
You can't relapse if you're not in recovery. 
