-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/2kph5g/aa_after_7_years/

Yay it's been 7 years without a drink or a drug! BUTT..Boo! there are new roadblocks that have arisen in my program.  Any other "middle aged" AAers struggle with any of this?  What's your experience?..I am young-ish in a big city and have been going to meetings sporadically for the last 4ish years - before that it was 1-3 mtgs/day.  I get frustrated hearing others share things that strike me as really unhealthy or judgmental and it makes it hard to get my butt in a chair.  I feel kind of unsafe or alienated a lot when I'm in a meeting.  ..I also see guys there that I remember totally preying on me and my littermates when I was a newcomer and it still makes me feel kind of ragey.  And they're still up to their old antics.  I'm aware of my role in these thoughts but still find it hard to make myself get to a darn meeting!  My sponsor suggested I really focus on compassion for others in the rooms (and myself) and I think that's a great start...My sobriety has been really real- lots of great things lots of hard things friends relapsing/dying and relationships changing. I'm definitely not the same lady that got sober years ago...In this city we talk about newcomers relapse and old timers and I don't feel like I get a lot of insight on the middle years.  Any thoughts?
----------immediate responses--------

Your sponsor is right.  Here is something else to think about.  Go with the intention of giving rather than getting something out of it.  Seven years is a long time to the one who has none.    Are you sponsoring anyone?  
In my experience and hearing from others years 7-10 can be tough.  I stayed away from AA - the whole program people meetings - for a couple of years from 7-9 and managed to screw things up pretty badly.  I didn't drink but I sure made life very hard for myself.  Dry drunk syndrome I believe it now...After that experience I sort of went back to basics learned some very valuable things that I had missed the first go round and started sincerely working with newcomers.  I started attending only a few meetings a week ones that were comfortable and got myself a life outside of AA.  I also started avoiding the bleeding deacons Big Book thumpers and egoists.  Sure I can shake their hands but I don't bother with the cliques or the bullshit.  I learned patience love and tolerance and that has greatly helped me outside of the rooms too...Service work has its rewards whether working with the new person greeting people at the door making coffee or whatnot.  Service work outside of AA in the community at large also has nice rewards!..Your sponsor might be on to something.  :)
I've observed a phenomenon personally (been in AA 20 years) that a lot of people leave between years 5-10.  At any sobriety countdown you'll see lots of folks under 5 a small sprinkling between 5-10 then a more steady representation of the teens and double digits til the numbers get quite high up...I believe that a lot of unresolved shit starts to boil up during this time and that it's one of those turning points described in how It Works where folks either dig deep into steps and spiritual growth or they do the fade...I talked to one of my old sponsors about this when I was in that stretch.  She also thought this phenomenon does happen.  I asked her why.  She said she thought people got to a point where they just didn't want to surrender any more deeply.  I believe she was onto something there...PM me any time if you like
I'm only coming up on 2 years and I'm in my 40s. ..I relate to what you're saying on so many levels...I threw myself at service and got involved in intergroup right away and district later on because AA is bigger than the meetings where the sick people feel safe being sick &amp; staying that way. Custom is nearly impossible to change and the locals only mentality is hard to break but when the more sober than me people are not doing real public information work or cooperation with the professional community saying everything is fine and not working to make it work better well I've got a new project...I can't really get a lot accomplished on my own but I'm growing into a role that allows me to have a place in Alcoholics Anonymous that provides the ease and comfort that I reflexively seek and the challenge of doing things that I could never bring myself to do whether I was drinking or not drinking in my past life...Because of the service work that I'm involved in it has led me to sponsor a few people. I'm so new and still learning to have faith but I had to seek a way to be in recovery where I wasn't having to maneuver through the approval and criticisms of those that have been around longer. Besides just because you are in AA doesn't mean you're recovered or even close to seeking a solution. I've met some real assholes. I've even met some real nice 'gift givers' but when you don't please them with what they expect they become just as bad as the real assholes...It's only through a lot of inventory and service that I'm able to stand toe to toe with these people and share the light that has shown in my life since I've become a sober member of Alcoholics Anonymous...Quick story one of these 'old timers' that has about the same sobriety time as me but has been in and out for decades was very sarcastic in my direction I didn't catch it but then I said "Thanks." The next time he spoke to me he said that he has to be careful letting me know what he thinks. That guy used to irritate the shit out of me now he can't touch me. I've a few of these stories in my short almost two years and that's a direct result of inventory.
What about General Service work?  I've found it to be more rewarding than most meetings and it both taught me more about AA and kept me enthusiastic.
Thanks for sharing your thoughts and experiences.  I appreciate being heard and knowing how y'all approach this kind of thing &lt;3
Years 5-7 were hellish for me.  I had almost completely stopped AA and was drifting rapidly into completely selfish and insane thinking.  Ultimately I decided that if this is as good as it gets I might was well drink.  I relapsed shortly after my 7th anniversary and spend the last 6 years struggling with alcohol.  I think it would have been better to stick with it but the past not something I can change.  I can't offer any advice other than my tale of warning.  If I could do it all over I would go back and remind myself that "this too shall pass"
The only people I've seen survive the 7 year itch are those who are involved in service. I always ensure I have a service position at the group level (I'm currently treasurer) and at intergroup (I'm currently secretary) and Regional level (I'm on the national convention committee). As I rotate out I move to another position so I'm always in the "Middle of the Lifeboat". ..From what I've observed over the years all the old timers did this. If you stray too close to the edge of the boat you've got a greater chance of falling back in the drink...In my area we talk about this a lot and actively encourage members at 7 years and 14 years and 21 years to get in to service again if we see them falling back - it seems to go on a 7 year cycle. Our motto is "Service keeps you sober" ......
