-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/2l5fth/still_struggling_even_with_changes/

I submitted 2 months ago with a lot of tips and help. At the end of the day I'm still trapped. I tried finding AA meetings and found that they're only in Detroit. ..I opened up to my family closest friend and new s/o. The result is the same. I'm young and fun and obviously what I'm doing is part of your twenties and experiencing life. ..I just want for once for someone to reach out and say "I get it. I understand. You can experience this sober. So far nothing...I'm tired. I tried sober on my own and it hurts and is exhausting. ..I'm so fucking frustrated and angry that my reasons for drinking so heavily are starting to blend.
----------immediate responses--------

Try doing it with other people who have recovered...Doing it alone is painful I've been there and it caused me to take risks that I didn't know I was taking until I was in trouble not drinking...You don't have to do this alone.
I've found that Alcoholics Anonymous is pretty much everywhere even in the smallest of towns.  We may not have club houses in every city but we do meet in hospitals churches restaurants and homes.    I've never not been able to find a meeting in all of my travels.  ..What city do you live in?  
Hey person I get you.  I work as a *bartender.*.  It's Sooo tough when everyone else seems to be able to drink in moderation yet we cannot.  Even if you don't have a local support group please feel free to PM me. I'm working hard on my sobriety and I would be happy to talk to somebody is going to the same thing.
I'm surprised AA is not somewhere within driving distance. I don't blame your for how you're feeling. I cannot imagine trying to stay sober on my own. I never would have made it without a therapist and working the steps in AA. ..It's important to always remember the reasons why you quit drinking. You can easily have the misery back. Check out /r/stopdrinking. It's a very active site and there's a link to the chatroom in the sidebar. ..I hope you find the support you need and deserve.
