-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/2miksq/4_step_venting_maybe_i_need_a_fresh_set_of_eyes/

Hello everyone my screen name is Dollhairs412 and I'm an alcoholic...A lot is running through my mind right now and I don't normally share details with other people outside of my friends so I will try to stick to the basic facts of my current situation...My history:.I'm in my mid-30's. I was a daily pot smoker who would drink every night. Towards the end of my addiction I began experimenting with snorting heroin before I overdosed on a bad batch. I've been clean and sober for 17 months...Other facts:.I have been battling life long depression (I'm seeing a counselor and taking meds). My memory is poor. I tend to forget things easily these days. ..My Situation:.Currently I go to meetings once every two weeks these days. I use to go to meetings more frequently and for a year I chaired a meeting. I have a Sponsor who I stay in touch with (infrequently these days) and he has been asking me about my progressing on the 4th Step. To be completely honest I just feel like stopping totally not relapsing just not working on the steps. If I had to list reasons why I have stopped working on the steps A) I'm afraid my Sponsor will ask me to take a Sponsee and B) I don't want to make amends...A) I do not want a Sponsee because I feel extremely uncomfortable with strangers. I also feel I would do a poor job at being a Sponsor...B) I can't make amends to some people because it would make things worse and those who I could amends to I feel I would do a half-assed job and would be just doing it to keep up appearances or to score brownie points...In Conclusion:.My sponsor tells me I will feel better when I complete the steps but in all honesty my life feels good right now as it is and I don't see it getting any better. The only real cravings I get is to smoke pot every now and then...Does anyone have any input or advice?
----------immediate responses--------

Thanks for sharing.  I'm afraid I have to agree with your sponsor.  Our steps have a purpose that do not  seem clear until they are behind you.  The fourth step is the first that requires definate action.  One and two are realizations three is a decision the rest are for how we follow through with that decision.  In Bills Story you'll read that he did his fourth and fifth (though at the time they were not steps) while still in the hospital.  Our book tells us that the third step is vital but has little lasting effect unless immediately followed by the rest.      There are promises that come with completing the steps and there are promises that come by not doing them at all.  I will take the first set gladly I never want the second set to appear again...Skipping meetings putting off step work and romancing the good old days are a recipe for relapse.  I've been around long enough to see this over and over again.  Yet I know why people do this each is a symptom of untreated alcoholism.  The next thought that comes along is maybe I made too big a deal of it.  I have been sober for a year and half on my own.  Maybe I am not an alcoholic after all.  A drink now and then or a pipe load might be good.  ..Scary thinking and hopefully you can head it off before it happens...As for being a sponsor theres nothing to worry about for now.  Unless you've completed the steps you lack the experience to take another through them.  I know I'd feel disingenuous advising another on how to do something I haven't done myself.   That doesn't mean you cannot be of service in other ways....As the old native American story goes you have two dogs fighting over your heart.  Which one wins?  The one you feed the most.  Recovery and disease are the dogs.  You get to decide which to feed...... 
The steps go in order for a reason. Each step will prepare you for the next one. So don't worry about 9 and 12. You'll be ready if you complete the previous steps...You don't have to work the steps. If your current situation is good enough have at it. I do know my depression improved dramatically after completing the steps. And I do know if I become dry (stop going to meetings service work talking to my sponsor etc) That depression will come back quickly. 
The reasons you present to support avoiding the 4th step have nothing to do with the 4th step.  You never have to sponsor anyone nor do you ever have to make amends.  What you are avoiding is the process of taking an honest look at yourself- the good the bad and all points in between...Now you never have to do a 4th step or even go to meetings if you don't want to.  All this stuff is voluntary.  I am making an assumption that you haven't quite landed 100% in bailing because you're reaching out to discuss the question...I propose that you consider the statement that you can't imagine your life ever getting any better- from my point of view as someone who has done the steps (a few times so far) - you can't imagine your life being different precisely because you have not done an inventory and had the experience of the steps changing you.  You'll never know unless you give it a real honest try.  Myself and many many others I know have gotten a tremendous benefit from working the steps.  ..In my own experience I can say that I am happier calmer more fun more patient and chill less fearful and angry and way more outgoing and adventurous as a direct result of step work. (Oh and did I forget sober?) Doing the steps has also been the impetus to reach out and get other kinds of help also such as therapy and medication for depression and anxiety.  Also in my experience I have seen many people stop before taking inventory and they relapsed.  Some made it back to try again others did not...In the end only you can judge what's right for you.  My hope is that you will decide to at least try it before deciding it's not useful.
The word "I" appears a lot here. Probably the main problem. 
1672 days ..We are all on our journeys. Yours is your own to travel in your own time. It took me 2 years to do my 4th step. The first 3 steps were easy then I got stuck. I feared it and put it off for two whole years. Then one day I was home alone with nothing to do and I wrote out my 4th step. Soon after I shared it with my best friend and then the rest felt so easy! I powered through them. I've done my 4th and 5th step again since that first time. Just because I'm sober doesn't mean I'm perfect (far from it)...Alcohol is cunning baffling and powerful. It will trick you into thinking you're OK. That you're better off without the meetings and without the steps. But you're not. 
I can not explain how important inventory is...Suffice it to say that I enjoy the results of taking inventory and that's why I continue to do it...Making amends is something that is right. I like doing the next right thing...The reason I did my first step four five six seven eight &amp; nine was because of a real incarnate monkey-on-my-back feeling that if I didn't go through with all of the steps I would experience the rest of my step one experience and die...I'm not ready to die...Maybe things just weren't that bad for you maybe things were still fun for you maybe you just haven't really developed the willingness to do what is required for the successful consummation of the program of recovery...Maybe that would be too bad if you go back out and overdose and die quickly but you know what would be worse?..If you go back to doing what you used to do and continue to live that way for a long time while you continually have to convince yourself that it isn't that bad.
Hi Dollhairs...Thanks for sharing. ..I am understanding that this is your first step 4 and you have never done it before? What my sponsor told me was that this step was of critical importance. I was freed from the crushing weight of my past. It is certainly uncomfortable as it brings up a lot of old memories and emotions I would have rather forgot. What he told me was "the pain isn't from going through this now it's from not going through it before." ..A) One of the keys to this program is giving away the gift I have been so freely given. I won't be able to keep it unless I give it away. ..I felt the same that I would not have anything of use to offer a sponsee. Almost immediately after my step 5/6/7 my sponsor told me I have to start making myself available as a sponsor. He let me know that I at least knew how to be 5 months sober. You know how to be 17 months sober and I am sure you have other experience you can offer. What are you giving back to the program? You likely won't be asked to sponsor until after your 5/6/7...B) I felt the same too. My sponsor helped me understand how I should do them. He told me I shouldn't think to far ahead and just think about the step I am on. I can assure you though if you make an honest effort to take responsibility for your actions and make things right it rarely goes poorly. At least in my experience. The promises are supposed to start coming true around step 9 and for me they did. ..I agree with your sponsor. If I took a pad and pen and wrote what I thought completing the steps would give me today and took a look at it after I had completed everything I would have sold myself short. Badly. I have a lot more today than I ever thought I would or should have. ..
