-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/2mu17b/cough_syrup_relapse/

I some times take nyquil to help me sleep since benadryl no longer works. I called a friend that has been sober for like 38 years and told him that I was taking recommended dose to help sleep. It has 10 percent alcohol. He would consider it a relapse and I don't. What's your guys thought on that?
----------immediate responses--------

It would be a slip for me but thats me. Tell me though. What do you consider a relapse? What are the gray areas? Glad you are talking about it..
I had a relapse with cough syrup. But I took it expressly for the feeling to get "messed up." I took it to get out of my own head and relieve all those feelings of inadequacy. What was you purpose in taking it? That's what I had to ask myself at least. When I got honest with myself my sobriety date had to be readjusted. All the best OP :) 
For me a big part of getting sober was about dealing with life and things that happen clear headed and without "aid". Why are you taking the couch syrup to help you sleep? Maybe try sleeping on your own. I know when medications .etc have to be involved there must be an exclusion zone (a depressive person still needs to take their meds) but we alcoholics and drug abusers like our crutches. Addiction is addiction. If you're addicted to taking something to help you sleep that's a problem in itself. .It's a personal journey in the end you must decide whether or not its a relapse. 
If you are not coughing then you are not using the cough syrup for its intended purpose. If a doctor did not prescribe you cough syrup then you are self medicating. ..Not only does cough syrup contain alcohol it may also contains DXM or some variation of that compound. Easy easy to abuse...If you are an admitted alcoholic that means you have a physical allergy to alcohol. That physical allergy **WILL** lead to a mental obsession. ..Like the others said it's is good you are talking about it. I also think you are playing with fire.
Whether it's a relapse or not will ultimately  come down to you but I agree with electricbluevelvet. Nighttime cough medicine is about the most dangerous over the counter medicine out there that you can mess around with in sobriety. It can trigger the phenomenon of craving and it is super easy to abuse. You are already questioning if this is a relapse and I think you were before you talked to your friend or you probably wouldn't have mentioned it. A craving could come on and your brain could say hey you already messed up with that NyQuil you might as well go ahead and get what you really want since you're gonna have to start over. Of course this is terrible advice but if your brain is like mine it's in the terrible advice business. Then before you know it full fledged relapse. My wife was given Klonopin when our baby girl was in ICU. The doctors all knew about her substance abuse history and her alcoholism but she was having a meltdown. She took them as prescribed and then had me flush the rest when she didn't need them. She had never even liked Klonopin but a her brain started telling her she had relapsed.  She didn't go to her sponsor with these thoughts and she wasn't spiritually fit enough avoid taking a drink. BOOM DRUNK! Tried and tried for the next 8 months and couldn't get more than a few days sober. She spent 8 of the first 9 months of our baby's life (who is fine by the way) drunk. It got so much worse than I had ever seen her and I have seen her bad off. Now she's 30 days into a 90 day treatment. She may have relapsed anyway because she wasn't working her program well enough but there is no reason to play with fire. In the treatment center she's in they give them melatonin which is a herbal supplement meant to help enable healthy sleep patterns. I can't speak for it myself but she says it works. There are things that can help you sleep without using something that dangerous. Research some and find out what works for you. Good luck!
How long have you considered yourself *sober*?
Myself I never touch NyQuil due to the alcohol content.  I've had terrible problems with insomnia but never would resort to anything with alcohol in it no matter what...Do you have a sponsor to talk this over with?  
I don't use NyQuil of any other medicine containing alcohol.  It's just too risky for me.  The book tells me that I can never safely use alcohol in any form and I believe it.  Ten percent alcohol is twenty proof the equivalent of a shot of fortified wine.  When I was new my sponsor told me a story where he went out on NyQuil.  His intentions were good but the alcohol triggered cravings and his good intentions shifted to bad motives.  He got drunk.  That doesn't mean it will happen to me but why take the chance?  ..I wouldn't call a shot of NyQuil a relapse but I'd question the motives of someone who knows the risks and continues to use it when there are many good alternatives on the shelf.  
I know for me I can't ingest alcohol or I will relapse in a big way. The bottom line is NyQuil alters your mental state in order to achieve a desired effect. Is that sobriety? Here's a good article I pulled from Google that might give you another perspective:..http://www.thefix.com/content/nyquil-was-my-gateway-drug2017
Very good question.  I don't know the answer.  But:..According to [an article](http://www.thefix.com/content/nyquil-was-my-gateway-drug2017) by Randi Newton on The Fix website one dose of NyQuil contains four main ingredients:..* 650 mg acetaminophen. This is a painkiller but long-term overuse might lead to liver damage. You probably don't need this; if I am correct I strongly advise you to stop taking it..* 30mg dextromethorpan.  This is a cough suppressant; you don't need it..* 12.5 mg doxylamine succinate.  This ingredient helps you fall asleep..* 10% alcohol...You don't need all four ingredients.  If you don't have a cough don't buy any product which contains a cough suppressant.  If you're not in pain don't buy any product which contains a painkiller...First of all you should buy some 12.5 mg doxylamine succinate pills. In my country they sell doxylamine succinate in every drugstore and you don't need any prescription. Whenever you feel the need to take NyQuil take a pill instead...Second of all read the package directions on the doxylamine succinate box. If you use it too often the box will say talk to your doctor or pharmacist to find out if it's really the best pill for you. Follow this instruction...How often _do_ you take NyQuil?..Also do you know?:  Why is it that you feel you're not sleeping well enough on your own?  And what's the cause?
I did the exact same thing and shared about it in a meeting. The general consensus was that while it wasn't a break of sobriety as long as I'm using it as recommended it is quite dangerous to do...When it comes down to it you know if you're abusing a substance. I stopped taking it because I didn't want to get back to anywhere near where I was and the possibility was there. It was that simple for me...Try the nyquil capsules no alcohol involved still puts ya to sleep!
