-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/2o0hs3/not_alcoholic_enough/

Today's day seven for me. I've been going to open meetings and sobriety for me has been sort of ... uncomplicated. My life has become immediately better. I'm not sure whether this is because the program is super effective or because I'm not a real alcoholic?..I sure feel like a real alcoholic and two weeks ago the prospect of sobriety seemed hilariously dubious and pretty remote to me. I'm still struggling with intense cravings and with diminishing withdrawal symptoms. The fact that I feel like I have to list my alcoholic resume seems weird... I don't say this all to rub it in anybody's face. It's scary. It's a barrier for me with regards to AA. I don't want to approach somebody or share at meetings because I don't want to be dismissed as a whiny baby or a hobbyist. I drank for eight years and can safely say that it ruined my life. Or maybe I'm just a manchild idiot who ruined my life and alcohol was a convenient scapegoat. I want to keep coming back; I like meetings. Should I like meetings? I feel like I shouldn't. I don't want to bother anybody with my problems if I'm not a 'real' alcoholic I don't want to waste the effort people might expend helping me if I don't need it if they're disdainful of me for being there or if there are other people who could legitimately use the help they're squandering on me. ..This is 100% an ego thing-- I don't ever want somebody to look at me and dismiss me as anything except what I am which is sincerely (I think?) a broken and hurt person trying to stop drinking. But maybe I don't need AA. 
----------immediate responses--------

You sound like you are a typical garden-variety alcoholic and I mean that in the kindest nicest way.  If you like AA meetings go.  If you want help ask.  It is absolutely impossible for you to 'bother' AA members or 'waste' their efforts.  Moreover most AA's would not be 'disdainful' at all of someone who somehow 'didn't drink enough.'..I am currently sponsoring a guy who has never had a legal drink in his life - his drinking history is less than five years and he seems bright focused and cheerful.  But he qualifies himself as an alcoholic and as an AA member and so I am honored to do what I can to help him...The same would go for you should you somehow end up meeting me face-to-face and ask...So if your life is improving dramatically don't knock it but feel free to be amazed at how easy life gets when we get sober.  I can't imagine that a drink would somehow improve it...Thanks for posting.
OP here's the thing about alcoholism- it is a malady that convinces you that you don't have it. I personally don't go by any fancy "Are you an alcoholic 20 question lists" or etc. What I go by is simple: Is my craving for alcohol amplified when I consume it? For me- yes..."I'm still struggling with intense cravings"."I drank for eight years and can safely say that it ruined my life."."I don't want to bother anybody with my problems if I'm not a 'real' alcoholic"..That sounds pretty alcoholic to me. In the meeting preamble (that part people ignore because they are busy texting or getting coffee) is something really important called the 3rd tradition: The only requirement for AA membership is a desire to stop drinking do you have a desire to stop drinking? If the 3rd tradition isn't being read in the meetings RUN...Are you a manchild? Probably. Don't worry AA rooms are composed of manchildren. And if anyone tells you otherwise: they are lying to you RUN. You don't really think all those people got to AA because they *had* power over alcohol - that their lives were manageable?.."I don't want to be dismissed as a whiny baby or a hobbyist." The solution for that is remarkably simple...Just read from the big book of AA and then just talk about what you read..."[AA] has been sort of ... uncomplicated." Well as it should be. God only wants three things for you for you to be Happy Joyous and Free. That's it. ..If you break the 12 steps into chunks its really like this:.Steps 1-3 Those are just acknowledgements (I'm a mess).Steps 4-9 That's the work (I've got issues and I'm sorry).Steps 10-12 Maintenance (I don't wanna do that again)..Think about it if AA was complicated - how would gutter drunks ever even hope to grasp it?.."I like meetings. Should I like meetings?" - Meetings are about sharing Experience Strength and Hope. What's not to like about that?.."This is 100% an ego thing-- I don't ever want somebody to look at me and dismiss me as anything except what I am which is sincerely (I think?) a broken and hurt person trying to stop drinking. But maybe I don't need AA." ..This is only my opinion but after 8 years of drinking and ruining your life as you say deciding that maybe AA isn't right for you after 7 days is a bit premature ;-)..All that said if you like going to meetings you're life has become better if you find comfort in these rooms; why not just stick around a while? I'm sure all the other manchildren enjoy your company ;-). ..I do suggest a couple things: getting your hands on an AA Big Book a copy of the 12 Steps and 12 Traditions book maybe find a sponsor. That and keep coming back...Take care OP I hope this finds you well!..
Alcohol is cunning. All alcoholics question themselves (especially in the beginning). .All you need for AA is a desire to stop drinking. .I've been sober for nearly 5 years. I got sober at 23 years old and I questioned over and over again. I still do. Because AA worked for me. That's why I question it. Was I really an alcoholic if I could give it up so easy. I haven't had a drink since the very first meeting am I strong enough to go it alone etc etc. .For the first 3-6 months of going to ID meetings I wouldn't even identify as an alcoholic I'd just say "I have a problem with alcohol" (like it's a different thing)..But I went to the meetings because my life was unmanageable I was sick and tired of being sick and tired. And life is phenomenally better because I don't drink.  It doesn't really matter at this early stage about putting a label on it if you want to stop drinking then stop drinking and AA will help you to continue not drinking. That's what is there for. No one will judge you as not being 'a real alcoholic' there you are a real alcoholic as soon as you decide you are. 
There is no definition of an alcoholic.There is no blood test no gene. There is plenty of good argument that the term itself is meaningless...The point is: the third tradition. Either you want to stop drinking or not. If you want to drink go ahead and drink. If you want to stop AA can help.
I know I am a REAL alcoholic because when I put a drink or drug in my body I CANT stop. Not because of a low bottom or some horror story. My best advice is to get a sponsor armed with facts about themselves and realize that you know absolutely nothing at this point in your sobriety.  
That was a really interesting post OP. Thanks for sharing. :)
One drink is to many and one hundred is not enough. ..I knew when I was 17 i was an alcoholic. When I was 31 I finally admitted it that is step 1. Look in the mirror and you will know. To  do something about it you have to admit and accept you are powerless and with alcohol involved your life has become unmanageable. 
We hope we have made clear the distinction between the alcoholic and the non-alcoholic. **If when you honestly want to you find you cannot quit entirely or if when drinking you have little control over the amount you take you are probably alcoholic.** If that be the case you may be   suffering from an illness which only a spiritual experience will conquer...A.A. World Services Inc (2013-12-02). Alcoholics Anonymous 4th Edition (Kindle Locations 817-819). A.A. World Services Inc.. Kindle Edition. .....That's right out of the book. You don't have to have some terrible drama or trauma or crime to be an alcoholic...The war stories that some people share in meetings are for their egos and damage the prospect of recovery for those of us who are not complete losers in life because I have said to myself "I'm not as bad as that guy maybe I was making too big a deal of this maybe I can take care of this on my own I'll just man up and things will be OK."..Yeah right. ..If when you honestly want to you find you cannot quit entirely or if when drinking you have little control over the amount you take you are probably alcoholic...That's all that's all the war stories I ever need to consider if I'm an alcoholic or not. Is this true for me? Yes it is. Well I'll be gosh darned. I'm probably an alcoholic. Well shit. What is it I have to do to get one those spiritual experiences?....**IF** I have one of these spiritual experiences then I probably won't be interested in impressing anyone with how alcoholic my life was or the depths to which I sank I'll only be interested in being of maximum service to others and seeing how I might be helpful....There are a lot of sick selfish alcoholics in Alcoholics Anonymous that don't seem to care about being helpful they only go to meetings to try to scare the new guy by trying to convince them that they weren't as bad as them and that if they keep drinking they can be...I believe that on my worst day drinking I was better equipped for life and my life was better than the majority of sober skanks I meet in Alcoholics Anonymous on a day to day basis because it was. Who cares? It doesn't matter. So what? I'm an alcoholic. My drama/trauma that got me to AA doesn't matter and neither does theirs. I didn't choose my parents and neither did they. They aren't skanks they are children of a loving G0d and they are doing the best they can with the light they have just like me. I was just born into a situation that was more conducive to success that they were a roll of the dice...The only thing that matters is do I believe or am I even willing to believe that a Power greater than myself exists and will return me to sanity?..I believe one does exist. I haven't had a drink in over two years and here's the kicker I'm happy about that...The problem of drink or don't drink has been removed......
Alcoholic manchild here checking in. You're cool with me. In the rooms I meet people with crazy crack den bottoms old timers with historical barroom certifications and younger-than-me folks with advanced degrees and successful careers with "relatively" little life wreckage who just want the pain and fear to stop. Two thoughts: 1: all these people have something to teach me; what I gain is entirely dependent on my own personal state of openness. 2: when I try to figure out who's who based on general appearances I'm almost always completely wrong. 
I'm in a very similar position.  I realized that drinking was making me moody depressed irritable always tired hungover and I missed a lot of work.  That didn't last long really perhaps less than a year.  Perhaps only 6 months.  ..The day I decided to not drink I went to my first and only AA meeting.  I felt so out of place like a tourist like Edward Norton in Fight Club.  The other people seemed to have much much lower bottoms than I and I felt ashamed stupid as that seems...I'm an educated professional.  I have a great family a lovely home a stimulating career and nothing obviously bad ever resulted from my drinking...When I quit I just stopped.  I was super moody for about a week but then the depression and anxiety lifted and I felt better than I had in memory.  I've been seeing a psychologist though we almost not at all about alcohol...My spouse seems to believe that I exaggerated my condition and am not really an alcoholic and urging me to consider drinking in moderation which I may be capable of but only for awhile.  I've been sharing stories about my hidden drinking and desire to drink in an effort to be a convincing alcoholic...My point longwindedly is that one may not be the archetypical alcoholic but that's not to say one isn't an alcoholic.  By the way not drinking has been pretty easy for me.  I have urges or longing occasionally but I'm not worried that I'll rush out to buy a bottle.  I think I'll be alright as long as I never allow myself to believe I can have just a drink.
It's 100% a symptom of alcoholism.  What you've described is the language of the disease.   "It has  been easy. Maybe I made a big deal out of nothing.  Maybe I'm not an alcoholic after all.  I could probably drink and be okay..."   These and many like it are lyrics to the same old song...Things do get immediately better when we stop drinking. No where in our literature does it say that the program must be hard or that we must suffer to stay sober.  If it was really hard and painful not too many of us would make it.  ..It's okay to like meetings.  I liked them from day one and still do.  It's okay to feel good and it's okay if things are easy.  Enjoy it.  You may still face some difficult days ahead but agony is optional.  ....
[deleted]
AA makes it easier and more fun to stay sober. 
Exhibit A:..&gt;I'm still struggling with intense cravings.......&gt;I don't want to bother anybody with my problems if I'm not a 'real' alcoholic I don't want to waste the effort people might expend helping me if I don't need it if they're disdainful of me for being there or if there are other people who could legitimately use the help they're squandering on me...I wouldn't worry about that. See Exhibit A..
