-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/2s6egr/stages_of_grief/

I've been without a drink for 111 days now and I still feel like I am stuck on step one of AA. I know that I am an alcoholic but I am still in the process coming to terms with it I suppose. ..I've been experiencing the stages of grief by cutting alcohol. Maybe that sounds severe but I can't help it. Be that as it may I am depressed...I struggle with depression anyway though. I am more communicative about my issues at this point. I meditate. I have hobbies. I feel much better about not dealing with the negative effects of alcohol. I am just discouraged to know that I won't ever enjoy a drink again. Can anyone here relate?
----------immediate responses--------

I can definitely relate to you. These sorts of ups and downs are normal I have had a few dark funks myself. In addition to sorting yourself out mentally and emotionally right now you likely still have a chemical imbalance which will right itself with time. ..Are you actively working the program with your sponsor? Which step are you on right now? I found that once I got past my step 4 / 5 I felt much much better. All that shit I did in my past was no longer weighing on me I had a new outlook on those things. I was able to turn them from liabilities into assets. ..I have heard the pre / during step 4 low is very common. Almost all AAs I have spoken to have experienced the same thing. ..Anytime I feel myself romanticizing about my past drinking only remembering the good times I try to catch myself and think about the day after my last bender. The day when I felt so hopeless alone and ashamed. I felt that way because of my drinking. That's where it took me. So yes I do think about the good times I had partying longingly sometimes but I try and catch them quickly and remember where it took me. ..
I think it is totally normal to go thru some grieving after getting sober. After all for most of us alcohol/other substances were our constant companions - the one thing in life our alcoholic minds convinced us we could depend upon. What was left after we had lost our jobs driven away loved ones and ended up in jails or institutions because of our disease-driven behavior? Why alcohol of course! So it makes sense to me that I will occasionally miss drinking or feel jealous of those who can drink normally...These feelings tell me two things: first that they are just feelings and like all feelings they will pass or change with time. Just because I feel it doesn't mean I have to act on it...Secondly it usually indicates to me that I have some alcoholic thinking going on. If I'm really really missing drinking I'm probably experiencing some euphoric recall of the old "glory days". Further examination or "playing the tape forward" will help me remember that those days were not nearly so glorious as my inner alcoholic wants me to believe. And it reminds me that because of the gifts of the program I have a choice not to drink just for today. Tomorrow isn't here yet...I have found it helpful to journal about these feelings talk to my sponsor and to others at meetings.
My initial grief losing my best friend (the bottle) was so much that it always drove me back to drinking.   In retrospect I can see that my grief was just another symptom of alcoholism.  It is the language of the obsession.   Fortunately when I got into the steps the obsession vanished in short order.  I find I get back what I put into the program.  When I'm engaged in the steps going to meetings and working with others my life is good.  When I stagnate I lose my center and the days get weird again.     ......
Ya the pink cloud didn't last very long so I can relate. I was feeling very sorry for myself on new years eve and I wrote myself a letter to remind myself how shitty I felt when I used. I made a list of all the things I've accomplished since being sober because I tend to forget. I read this letter daily and it really helps me with my primary purpose to stay sober and help other alcoholics to achieve sobriety. ..Go to meetings every day (or more if you can.) Get a sponsor. Work the steps. Talk to other AA members. Surround yourself with people who inspire you and let go of fair weather friends. It helps :-)
Great job on 111 days! 
First off congrats on making it this far. ..Second - it's probably time for you to discover what I and some others call 'the second meeting'. This is the coffee klatch pizza party card game AFTER the meeting where you and some others usually three or more go out for whatever and - continue the meeting. ..Frankly I often learned as much sometimes more and was able to process what I was learning during such activities...My favorite for about five years was after our Thursday night meeting. About ten of us (average sometimes a few more sometimes a few less) would descend on/invade the nearby pizza place slam a few tables together order pizza and 'fellowship'...All of us gained from it.. 
Dude you're in the wall phase right now. Don't sweat it dude go to a meeting every day. Build your day around a meeting. People in those rooms know exactly what you are going through and they are there to help. You just have to put yourself in the right position to get help. ..You know what I used to do? Wake up first thing take my xanax smoke some pot then skip class. Now I've begun to get up at 5 am ride my bike to a meeting at 7:30 am work all day go to outpatient rehab go home eat then sleep. I hardly have time to think about anything. Just fill your time up with as many healthy activities as possible. Like someone said in the comments above this shit will pass with time. If you don't believe that you'll ever feel better call your sponsor or pray or do something AA. Shit works dude no idea what it is but it does. Hope this helps.
I hope to be on step one for the rest of my life. If I ever start to think that I'll be able to drink again and that I am any good at managing my life I'm buggered...I know how you feel though - a whole lifetime without being able to drink alcohol???? Luckily I don't have to think about my whole lifetime. It's just today that I can't have a drink...Good luck - how about trying steps 2 - 12? You only need to do step 1 for today. You admit it by seeking help with the other 11.
I completely understand this. I can't imagine the rest of my life without a drink. I'm at 13 days now it's so fucking hard and I'm not sure if I'll ever come to terms with it. I'm not sure I'll ever make it past a few weeks. I'm not even sure that I want to at this point. I struggle with depression as well. Booze was my bff my go to. And now I'm sad and I just have to deal with it. 
