-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/2tg7wh/my_1_year_is_monday_and_havent_been_to_meetings/

I havent been to a meeting since beginning of December after going 5 times a week for like 10 months.  I actually havent been this comfortable in sobriety as I have not going to meetings.  I have always struggled with the higher power as an agnostic and am questioning whether I need the program...Anyone ever feel this way?  What should I do?
----------immediate responses--------

Look for agnostic dense meetings. They exist though not in all neighborhoods may have to drive a bit. There are a lot more agnostics and atheists than may first appear. It was my attempting to come to terms with a 'higher power' I could live with that I became an agnostic over the course of my first two years in AA. You don't have to be alone. The general ideas of the steps and especially the fellowship can apply to you just as well...Good luck..
A little over a year ago a young man appeared in our group.  He was shaking and reeking of liquor.  We talked for a moment I have him my number and didn't expect to see him again.  The very next day we spoke on the phone then met up at my local group.  Shortly after he asked me to sponsor him.  He took to the program like a duck to water.  He attended one to two meetings a day he got into the steps and joined a panel that brings meetings into prisons once a week.   He was modest and seemingly humble.  It wasn't long before he found himself working in a field he dreamed of.  The months passed quickly and he celebrated his first year. The man was an example of how it works.    At the beginning of this month he called me.  He was drunk angry and full of shame.  He cleaned himself up and I drove him to a meeting.    We spoke for a while and he told me what happened.  Over the past few months he began what I call  taking the steps in reverse or untaking the steps.  Instead of a meeting a day it had turned into a meeting a week.  He had stopped taking steps ten eleven and twelve and instead of amplifying his program he had put it on the back burner.  In other words  his sobriety no longer remained the key priority.  It took a back seat to people places and things.   As usual the room welcomed him back with open arms.  He rededicated his life to the program but it didn't last long.  Instead alcohol won him back and he's drinking today.  Unfortunately his story isn't unique or even special.  He relapsed simply because he stopped treating a disease that has no cure....We alcoholics have great forgetters. So much so that we have coined a few phrases like "peculiar mental twist" or my favorite "strange mental blank spots."   What they mean is that the memory of past sufferings due to our drinking are clouded over or unavailable for recall when we need them most...I wouldn't worry too much about the spiritual side of things.  "God" "Higher Power" and others are just words.  I've been sober for more than a couple of decades and I'm no closer to understanding what these words mean to me than I did when I first arrived.   The concept isn't important. I might suggest this with an example.  I'm typing this reply on my iPad.  I have no idea how an iPad works and I don't need to know how it works to use and enjoy it (except for when it crashes).  The spiritual angle is no different.  I don't have to understand it to use it...I hope you find a place that's comfortable enough to you to treat your incurable disease.  ....
I have missed meetings for extended periods - sailing in Bahamas. Did not drink did not want to drink but when I returned I started meetings again because I still have an inner addict and for the fellowship...Am agnostic too that's not the issue for me - early on I used it as an excuse to drink but that solved nothing.
Thankfully there is a chapter for us agnostics :)..Don't let what AA gave you take you away from AA. 
I find the God aspect really annoying...However that said the meeting give me a high. I find they work. I do not over think it. It works for me so I do it. (7 months sober)
It's not important that you believe in God... It's important that you realize you are not God. ..The purpose of the program is to teach you to let go of all the things that are beyond your control. .
