-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/2ufwvn/trying_to_get_back_to_meetings_after_a_very_long/

I was sober for 8 years through AA.   I spent that last 15 years trying to wrestle my alcoholism into submission.  This has been a roller coaster of thousands of times of trying to have one or two drinks and ending up on a long binge.  Lately I've been trying to not drink on work nights but the longer I stop the bigger the binge is the next time I try to have one or two.   .     The last time I got sober I rarely spoke at meetings but I got the help I needed outside of meetings.  I feel part of my problem is social anxiety and I probably never solved that in my last sobriety.  I tried to go to a meeting last night but it was closed then I couldn't find 2 others.  I did successfully go to one this morning and it was great but I was mortified that I would be asked to speak in front of the big group.  I want to continue going  I should go to another one tonight but how do I get over this fear of large groups?  I also have fears that I'll see someone from work or someone that I was an asshole to while drunk..
----------immediate responses--------

Right now the members in these meetings are strangers to you. You're probably more uncomfortable among strangers than you are among friends right?..With continued attendance (and participation) you'll get to know them and they will get to know you a bit. I think you'll find yourself more comfortable in these meetings as time progresses. A month from now you may be able to name most of the people in the meetings...Hang in there and start shaking hands when you arrive.
I too have a fear of large groups but I have to be willing to do everything I must to stay sober. God knows I did everything for the drink. I hate change and I hate being uncomfortable but I hate laying drunk and the consequences that follows more. You are doing what you must and you need to recognize that. Be proud of the steps you are taking and know that each and everyone in that room has been exactly where you are. The only one judging you is you. Reach out. Get numbers. Make yourself uncomfortable. Before you know it you will be able to see the miracle that is you sober just for today. Good luck my friend. 
At least you are getting to the meetings- that's a great start.  I was so uncomfortable in the beginning I didn't want to talk either or speak to people 1:1...I think if you can just keep getting to the meetings little by little you will start feeling more comfortable as things and people get familiar...You can always say "pass" if you're not ready to talk in the meeting and if/when you're feeling up to it you could consider just saying how anxious and uncomfortable you feel.  I guarantee there are others who are feeling or have felt the same way...And if you see someone from work...they are there too same as you.
Relax you're normal...Anxiety is part of the detox process...Just prepare yourself with a few stock phrases that you feel comfortable repeating whether its in front of the group or one-on-one..."I'm goose1963 I'm sober today.  I'm grateful for my sobriety and grateful to be at a meeting of AA.  Thanks."  That should do it if you are asked to speak...If you see someone you wouldn't want to talk to just say "I'm glad to see you but I'm a little overwhelmed right now.  Forgive me but I'd rather not talk right now.  I'm here to listen not speak."..Go to the meetings no matter what...I went through the same process.  The only way through it is through it.
I needed sponsorship. I needed therapy. I needed service...I did the therapy for six months and it cost over two grand...I still am actively sponsored and still am in service and I go to meetings. These are the things I've found most helpful for me.
First off you're not alone.  99% of American adults are afraid of speaking in front of a group.  This includes alcoholics and nonalcoholics alike.   The cure for this is almost always the same and it's simple   just do it.      This holds true for every part of the program.  Few of us were enchanted with the thought of taking inventory of our flaws and none of us wanted to explain them to another.  Yet once we do these things our fear melts away.   ..Everyone in the group has either felt the same as you or still feels that way now.   They will become your closest friends and allies if you let them......
I also used to be scared of talking in front of large groups at AA but quite soon I realised that there wasn't very much to be scared of. It's a safe place to speak. No-one will be judging you and a lot of people will be able to identify with how you are feeling. Try not to "get it right" or impress people - the best thing to do is to say it like it is and say exactly what you're thinking. It's only through doing that that you'll feel better and more comfortable. ..As for meeting people from work or who you've offended in the past - chances are that they'll be extremely happy and pleased to see you in the room and will be incredibly supportive. They'll also have been asses in their past and will not judge you for it. ..Go to the meeting even if you're scared. Over time you'll feel comfortable and perhaps like you even want to go. Do speak too - I find that I often don't know what's on my mind or how I really feel until I've shared. ..Good luck! 
