-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/2zbeew/really_need_help_most_of_family_is_in_recovery/

I am using a throwaway because I am not sure how everyone will respond to this. I also don't feel comfortable sharing this in a meeting because I really don't want anyone saying "keep coming back" in that sarcastic way that people do sometimes or people coming up to me to try to show me I am in denial. I apologize in advance for the wall of text. A little background: I got sober when I was 22 (am 31 now). A little before my nine year anniversary I relapsed. I am sober now but right before I relapsed I was having a lot of issues with AA and a higher power. When I first got sober I was convinced that AA and the 12 steps were going to be a part of my life forever. I had a spiritual awakening many sponsees and was an active member of AA. About 3 years ago I watched my mother almost drown and there was nothing I could do. My father had drowned about a year before I got sober too. I had a lot of questions about the universe and God and though I asked for help I never really took action. This time I still have the same questions but I am taking a lot of action. But here is where it gets tricky. All three of my parents (Dad Mom and Step-Father) have been sober my entire life and longer. While drinking of course it was a bummer for me but after I got sober the first time it was a true blessing. My uncle husband and brother-in-law also have long-term sobriety. But now I am realizing more than ever that I feel trapped to obtain sobriety only through the 12 steps. I have never actually tried being sober using any other means. When I was 22 I went to a long term rehab center for what I thought was 3 months but ended up being 9 and I still didn't "graduate". At that treatment center I basically ended up getting a PhD in the big book. I subscribed to the primary purpose philosophy for a while but when I started becoming unhappy with that way of life I stopped acting like I knew everything as best as I could. It was and still is very hard because I constantly judge and feel judged for not doing it the "right" way. While it's a worthy personal journey in my family there is a very strict "right" way of being sober: go to AA trust God clean house (work the 12 steps) and help other alcoholics. I recently stopped going to meetings because it was making me feel worse and I stopped relating to other alcoholics. I am sure you are thinking (denial...justification...etc.) but that is my truth right now. If I had a clueless family it would be hard because they perhaps wouldn't understand my disease but in so many ways it would be amazing because ultimately it would be myself that makes the decision to seek help from AA. I also don't think I would be so sensitive to the dogma that shows up in meetings at times. I am constantly terrified to talk about how I truly feel in my family because it often upsets them and they definitely judge me. I know it is because they are scared that I will relapse again so on some level I understand. But it's like being gay in a super religious family. It is very hard for me to be honest about my feelings because I get yelled at pitied or get long lectures about how what I am doing is dangerous. If it were up to me I would just keep my feelings and thoughts to myself and my close friends but they consistently ask me questions about where I am with my recovery which invariably leads to a fight. The thing is I truly believe I am an alcoholic. I also pretty much believe I need to go to AA and work the steps if I want to stay sober I think but don't know for sure because that has always been a given in my family. I feel like I don't get to personally make that decision for myself without upsetting most of my family. I know if I tried any other way there would be a rift. Again it would be like someone who came out to their family and went home for a holiday. Sure they love me but they highly disapprove of my lifestyle. I want the freedom to not do it "right". Does that make any sense? I am currently helping others seeking spirtual help outside of AA and am in therapy once a week with a group. I am also being completely honest with my husband and close friends even if I deem the thoughts and feelings I have as "bad" or going against what I have learned in AA (which is VERY different from before). I am just at a loss of what to do here...TL;DR - Am in a family of recovering alcoholics. Their belief that the only successful way to be sober is to attend AA and work the 12 steps has me feeling trapped between what I feel/think and what I know they want from me.
----------immediate responses--------

Is it the meetings and fellowship or the twelve steps that are bothering you? Or is it just that you felt like you didn't make the choice to be in AA yourself? Because in the sense that you wanted to get sober and you used the principles of AA to do that you did choose it. If you want to look into other programs there are plenty of passages in the Big Book you could quote to your family if they did give you grief for it. I hope you have a sponsor to talk to about your dilemma though because I think a lot of people with long term sobriety through AA have stopped and wondered why they are there at some point. 
Sounds like you're experiencing what some call a "spiritual crisis".  To me it's like looking up and seeing that the parachute I'm strapped into while dangling a few thousand meters above ground has a hole in it and not just any hole a really big one.  I have two options have whatever faith I can muster and ride it out or unbuckle the straps and let gravity do what gravity does and gravity seems to like me close to the ground.   I have done both at different times.  ..Times like these are the ignition switches for change.  I have been through more than a few of these myself over the years.  Each one has widened my perspectives a little more. ..You're family is well meaning but it doesn't mean that they're right.  They like you are human (that's all we ever get to be).  You have my permission to tell them to shut the fuck up but I don't think that's what you're after here.  I think what you're looking for is some room to grow and the freedom to make your own choices.  You may have to tell them as politely as possible that our program does not allow us to dictate the lives of others.  That it's attraction rather than promotion.    You may find yourself back in love with the program or you may not.  The choice is yours to make...
I don't always agree with the assholes that talk G0d &amp; higher power helping others and working the steps but are still assholes...&gt;I never really took action..What do you do? Recovery wise?..What I found was that **if** I set up the meeting chair the meeting (then I can at least provide the initial lead off) clean up the meeting do Intergroup activities carry the message to Corrections carry the message to Treatment carry the message to the psychiatric unit as well as being open to folks that ask me to meet with them and answer any questions or if they seek me out for guidance----if I do all this stuff I don't have doubt and nobody can yank my chain. When I do get criticized I can pull their card and ask what they are doing for the group and they sheepishly back down...Maybe I do these things for the wrong reasons? The catch is if I do all these things I stay sober...I really do not sponsor.  I might be a friend and read and show how I did inventory and listen but that's being a friend not a sponsor...And there aren't too many folks that I am friends real friends with...The fellowship where I am is full of some sick folks. Imagine that?!? I don't associate with most of them and don't seek them out for comfort because they have nothing that I want but there are a few that are *just right* and they appear at just the right time to let me know that I'm not alone...You've had a lot more sober time than I've ever had but when I still had ideas I had to burn them up and if they worked I kept them and if they didn't there was nothing left after I tried them. Use all your ideas just don't die and then you have a new experience.
I'm sorry to hear about the struggles you've encountered and where you're at! I really don't feel like I can offer too much in the way of advice on how to handle but I can tell you about my experience and what has worked for me...I have 21 months sober after about 15 years of struggling and many attempts (I'm 38). I've been doing well not just because of meetings because more times than not I leave there thinking about drinking more than I did before I went. Mainly I stay involved with the sober living house I first got sober in as my service commitment. After about 5 months in I bought into the business and am now a co-owner and I continued to live there until around 14 months sober. Not because it was a way to generate money (I've actually lost about $1000) but to generate continued life experience through working with and staying in touch with others. I have a sponsee there I lead one of the 2 weekly meetings and talk to all the guys directly on a regular basis. I spoke for the first time at another recovery center / sober living and that really reinvigorated me. ..I believe I understand pretty well what you say about it being the meetings. I grew up and lived in Iowa until I was 35. The meetings I would go to there and the minimal support resources were very catastrophic types. To admit you were an alcoholic meant you were handed a death sentence unless you agreed to a life of 3 meetings per week of people sitting around complaining about how if they didn't go to the meetings they couldn't stay sober. It was like this self-fulfilling prophecy of depression and all hope is lost. I moved to Arizona in a geographic sobriety attempt which initially failed miserably because I was trying to go it alone. It wasn't until I sunk myself thick into sober living going to meetings being around others and seeing how amazing the program was here that made all the difference. I'm not sure if this may apply but perhaps any change of scenery from your normal meetings may be a breath of fresh air...The biggest epiphany I think I had with my personal sobriety is starting to read the 7 levels of Intimacy by Matthew Kelly a month or so ago. It may sound silly if you're unfamiliar with the book but there are so many parallels between what he discusses and sobriety / the big book it's hard not to think he has some connection with recovery. While I love and can't do without the camaraderie and fellowship of the people I've met and continue to meet in the program; the things he talks about really opens the realm of the topics to apply to everyone in all aspects of life not just us sick insane folk. :)  I have nothing bad to say about the Big Book at all. For me it helps me conceptualize and troubleshoot this broken thing I have and how it applies to other things people struggle with. Not just others in the program but life in general. ..I know this doesn't specifically address how to handle the integration into your family's program per se but it sounds like this is as much an internal battle as it does trying to explain to your family in a way you also believe you're ok. Perhaps it's my IT nature and troubleshooting to find the root cause of the problem but I think you'd be on to something if you felt 100% confident about what you're doing for continued sobriety to be at ease with explaining it to them. Even if they don't get it perhaps knowing you tried and that you're confident with what you're doing will alleviate some of the doubt...I wish you all the best!.
