-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/33vrib/reset_my_sobriety_date/

This May 21 would be my 9th AA birthday. About a month ago I had a surgery that had complications causing major pain for which I received a prescription for hydrocodone (Vocodin). One night I took two pills instead of the prescribed one not because one wasn't killing the pain but because I wanted to feel the Vicodin. I told my wife what I'd done that same night used the medicine properly from then on and when the pain was manageable I dumped the rest of the pills. Now it was alcohol that brought me to AA I'd never taken an opiate before this prescription so I don't consider a "relapse" but I do recognize I've broken the spirit of my program and used a drug for entertainment outside of my legit prescription for pain. So tell me would you reset your sobriety date in this situation or counsel your sponsee to do so?
----------immediate responses--------

This is a huge reminder that all I really have is today.  I'm not sure what I'd do but if it was causing me enough guilt and same that I needed to take to reddit for an opinion then chances are I'd reset my date.  I've had to take narcotics due to dental work and I gotta admit the temptation was there.  I'd say this - "To Thine Own Self Be True" - I see that on the drilled out chip that I carry in my pocket at all times.  Have you talked to your sponsor about it?  What does he say?
If you came to AA for alcohol abuse and you have abstained from alcohol then you should keep your sobriety date. Many in AA have a different opinion on situations like yours. Ur gnna drive yourself nuts if you start self doubting yourself too much. Good luck.
There's a story in the back of the big book titled Doctor Alcoholic Addict (third addition. I believe the title changed in the fourth edition) in which Dr. Paul (the author) called his drugs "solid alcohol."    I bring this up because I believe you dodged a bullet and not just any bullet.  One pill was all it took to distort your judgment and trigger a craving for more.  You were under the influence before you were under the influence.    Is this a slip?  I'm not so sure.   You were already impaired when you reached for the second. This impairment was by necessity (to dull the pain)  rather than choice.   Nowhere in our literature does it say that we should ignore our doctor's advice and suffer needlessly.   ..Instead of a slip I'd chalk this up as a lesson learned and breathe a sigh of relief and gratitude that it did not go further.   I commend you for your honesty.  I would also caution you against bringing this up at the group level.  You've been around long enough to see that some people value their opinion of matters that do not concern them far too highly.  I do encourage you to discuss this with your sponsor or spiritual advisor. Not so much for advice but to keep this from being a secret. Secrets can be poisonous when we are doing our best to stay on track. But you already know this or you wouldn't have posted here....
No I would not...I have done lots of stupid irresponsible things in recovery such as eating a desert laced with alcohol at a fancy restaurant that I had just paid $8 for after being assured by the server that it was alcohol-free; repeatedly passing a joint around a circle at a party without taking a toke because the person passing it to me was cute;  allowing prescription narcotic meds to sit unused in my bathroom long after I had need for them and well you get the picture...I'm human and subject to making decisions that in retrospect were horrible.  But I have to forgive myself and move on.  I work a program of recovery to the best of my ability and I need to recognize and accept that sometimes my abilities don't measure up to the risks that I am faced with.  That is precisely why I have a support system in place and keep myself accountable to others for my decisions and my behavior...You also appear to have been in a tempting situation found your resolve slipping immediately accounted for your behavior and reached out for support.  What more could you possibly have been expected to do suddenly become perfect?..Let it go before the guilt and anxiety do more damage to you than that single extra pill ever could have done.  You did not drink and you did not addict yourself to painkillers.
Once again I'm the late man in. One of the most profound things taught to me in my time here in AA is that alcoholism is a mental illness. Our second step talks and teaches us specifically about insanity. If you realize your best thinking got you to a chair at a meeting you can't help but understand your mind is out to get you. From what I've read and implied from your post you have a wealth of healthy alternatives besides being alone in your own thoughts. Let it go. As has been so eloquently said in other responses.
Pray about it and talk to your sponsor. I'd say no but ultimately it's up to you. For me there has to be intent and effect to consider it a relapse. It'd be one thing if you crushed it up and snorted it then didn't tell anyone. You took an extra pill and immediately did something about it. I wouldn't consider that a relapse but it's a good reminder of why you have to be vigilant.
I can relate. Pills are a part of my story. I reset my sobriety date over pain pills because I needed to be honest and clean house. In my story pills are always the beginning of a relapse to drinking heavily. Always. Without true ownership of the role of painkillers in my relapses with alcohol I couldn't break the cycle of pills-lie-relapse. So I'm breaking the cycle. Thanks for sharing your story. 
