-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/3761jp/so_i_relapsed/

I just got out of treatment which was a 6month prison rehab and then a 3 month halfway house. I go to AA 3x a week. Well tonight I was bored and home alone so I decided to buy a 6 pack. I drank 2 1/2 beers and I felt like shit and hated the way it tasted. I'm glad I can't drink anymore I guess I had to find out myself. I threw the other beers away. I thank God for taking my taste for alcohol away I just wish I would have never drank. I need a sponsor how do I get one? Thanks ahead of time
----------immediate responses--------

Approach someone at a meeting that has the recovery that you want and ask them to help you. Ask to setup a time to chat make yourself teachable and do what they tell you to do. If you aren't getting the responsiveness you need find someone else.
Have you ever seen this series of videos on AA Back to Basics? http://youtu.be/N3MIGrvUNgY
First of all thanks for posting because it shows that you really want something more for yourself. ..I am glad you were doing meetings.  If you haven't gone back yet go asap. ..I do not know if you're make or female but find a SAME sex meeting and go every week until you start meeting people that you admire and feel that they have a good hold on this crazy thing called sobriety...Then just ask that person to sponsor you.  Sometimes people have a lot going on and may be unable to take on additional people. Don't be discouraged.  Keep asking until you find someone that you can work the steps with. ..For the boredom...can you do some service or volunteer work? .Ask your regular meeting secretary if you can chair the meeting for 6 months. ..Google volunteer opportunities in your area. Park cleanups.  Food banks. Anything that will give you something productive to do make you accountable to show up...and most of all something that will make you feel useful. ..Hang in there and sending my love and support. ..Edit - fixed the typos.  tried to do it hours ago but lost power for 10 hours.  Darn Texas weather this weekend.
How to get a sponsor.  ..Go to more than three meetings a week.  That's where you find sponsors.  If you are a full time alcoholic it's hard to stay sober on a part time program...Study the book Alcoholics Anonymous carefully.  You'll use it to figure out whether someone is just talking the talk or actually living the program...Listen carefully at meetings.  Some people sound great at the podium but don't have the knack of taking others through the steps. Some have a natural ability to take people through the steps but  they're not great speakers.  The quietest person on the room may have more experience than the most polished speaker. ..Don't worry about compatibility.  Personality differences can be very beneficial.  I don't particularly enjoy  my sponsors company.  We don't hang out or do things together that are not program related.  We don't enjoy the same music or activities yet I trusted him with my very life.  I asked him to sponsor me in 1992 I'm still sober and so is he.  He is still my sponsor today...Ask.  It does happen that sponsors pick people though not as often as it should.  There was a time when a member would introduce himself to a newcomer as their sponsor until the person found someone better.    Today this doesn't happen very often so it's up to you to ask...Good luck!
I bet you felt lonely when you were home not bored. I also believe you thought about doing this long before it happened. There is no "suddenly got drunk" moments they're always planned by your subconscious mind. Go to a meeting and ask the chair person for a sponsor.
Welcome back Rstation9!
