-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/37f4j3/just_slipped_feeling_guilty_feeling_ashamed_but/

Greetings! ..Achieved 30 days of sobriety yesterday. ..Today I slipped. In short I got in a huge fight with my partner. There was cheap wine right next to me after our fight and I decided to just grab it and drink. ..I don't feel I'm abandoning my recovery. I plan on getting right back on my plan by tomorrow. ..But still I feel crippling self guilt. I made such a huge progress to end up here. ..Have any of yall had slips? What are your opinions? Does that mean starting at day 1 again? 
----------immediate responses--------

Day 1 again yes. But you now know you can make it to day 30 with a little effort again too. 
Quitting is easy.  Staying stopped - if that's the objective - tends to be a little harder - which is why we typically recognize continuous days of sobriety. ..I am delighted that you are not abandoning recovery    .Thankfully we don't lose the knowledge and tools we acquire. .For me my problem is I forget to use them...Hugs and support!  ..Also - remember HALT..Hungry - ANGRY ;)  - lonely - tired...When I get in a fight with my partner - I run to a meeting.  .They calm me down and help me kill a few hours - sober and safely.  
The first slip was not being in a sober place - wine within arms reach is probably not helping. 
Be kind to yourself.  You aren't abusing alcohol alcohol is abusing you.  You slipped and you let that drunk you locked out of your house sneak in while your back was turned.  Kick him back into the back yard and lock the door tight.  It's not what you did it's what you are doing now and will do tomorrow that counts
1 day slip?..Mine are years--I end up lost and bewildered wondering what the hell happened to my life...If you want to drink drink if you don't then learn how to live happily without drinking. You may have to make some major changes.
1 day slip?..Mine are years--I end up lost and bewildered wondering what the hell happened to my life...If you want to drink drink if you don't then learn how to live happily without drinking. You may have to make some major changes.
You are not the first won't be the last. Climb back on the horse. Take from this incident what you can to help prevent the next...Hint: Anger Management..
go to a meeting tomorrow as early in the day as possible.  share it with the group.  if you have a sponsor discuss.  if you don't have one get one.  come up with a plan to figure out why this happened and what steps you can take to ensure it doesn't happen again...good luck!
Sorry that you got into a fight with your partner it's likely why you felt the need for relief using alcohol. Your guilt makes sense at this juncture just remember that it's something which only deserves a little bit of time. Nobody recovers on the first try by the time I entered AA I was convinced I could stay sober all day but ended up drinking the very same evening. 30 days is a wonderful milestone think of your relapse as a gentle touchdown before an even greater ascent into sobriety. Take it one day at a time always and stick to the winners- stay away from anyone who is justifying your guilt stay away from the told-you-so's and the shame-on-you's. Make sure your sponsor is aware and get that desire chip. Alcoholics drink it's what we do naturally like it's our ambrosia. AA helps us learn to live a life without drinking because we want to live like other humans. We should feel no shame about either the drinking or the sobriety it's simply a process that needs to be followed. Good luck.
I've been around 12 step programs for almost 27 years now and I've had varying lengths of sobriety. Anywhere from 3 mos to over a year to over 13 years. I am sober about 5 1/2 as I write this. Yes it means starting over at day 1. Sober time is continuous sobriety. That's not to say that people don't cheat and still claim to be continuously sober but it's about honesty and if one is living in dishonesty experience shows me that they will eventually relapse again. That said I don't care if someone has 1 day or 100 years we ultimately only have today. Today is the only day that matters. Should we celebrate our milestones? Absolutely we should. For ourselves but more importantly for the newcomer who needs to see that people can and do stay sober. One really important thing about lengthy clean time is the knowledge one attains over time and a life that gets exponentially better the longer one stays sober. ..Slips happen. They are unfortunately a part of recovery for many people. They were for me but I don't "slip" and it's never for just a day. I *relapse* hard and I don't come up for air. Do not let shame or embarrassment keep you from getting right back in the rooms. I've done that it my ego almost got me killed before I got back to the program.  ..Last advice if you don't have a sponsor get one. If you're not working steps get a sponsor and work them. Go to meetings and don't drink in between them. Good luck and God bless. 
[deleted]
Sounds familiar but get back up and keep fighting. The rewards of quitting drinking outweigh any cost. And it has cost me a lot but I'm alive! Almost 3y here.
