-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/38m00w/double_diagnosis/

Anyone struggling with alcoholism and mental illness?..31 year old gay guy here sober for 2  years. I feel like I'm on the verge of a major depressive episode and I'm feeling really alone. 
----------immediate responses--------

AA is great for fellowship and the program is very good at dealing with the day-to-day nitty gritty of staying sober and cleaning up some of the insanity caused by alcoholism...it's not so great at medical problems and depression is a medical problem. major depressive disorder is a brain disorder. it's stigmatized because it's an invisible problem and because the brain as an organ is very poorly understood compared to say the functions of the kidneys...some people in AA will tell you to stay away from all psychoactive medication but i can tell you without a doubt that this attitude is bullshit. i nearly killed myself at 17 years sober because of it. you wouldn't go to an AA meeting for a broken arm; don't go to an AA meeting for other medical problems either...get professional medical attention from a psychiatrist and if necessary a therapist. also be aware that if your psychiatrist gives you medication it can take six to eight weeks to notice primary effects so if you don't get anything except dry mouth and hives for the first week you're on track and need to keep taking your meds as written.
Depression and alcoholism are often seen together. I am a woman who takes medication for both ADHD and depression. I have more than three decades in recovery but during those years have gone through periods of severe depression and anxiety. For almost a year I was suicidal didn't eat well or spend time out of the house. I am better now. ..Are you working the steps? Doing so was helpful and especially being of service to my AA group and women in the program. ..I hope you'll tell your doctor that your depression is getting worse. Perhaps it's time for a medication adjustment. ..It's not your sponsor's job to be a therapist. His role is to guide you through the steps. If you are not comfortable with your therapist talk to him about this or transfer to a different one. I would assume that your therapist knows what it is to live a mentally stable and satisfying life. ..I hope you get relief. ..
[deleted]
From my experience if my brain chemistry is out of whack I'm going to think and feel bad.  ..Get your meds fixed up.  Until then just hold onto your ass and don't do the next wrong thing while not doing the next thing wrong.  ..You can try acting your way into thinking better but with clinical chemical imbalances it's like fighting the tide...Do fun shit that gets you out of your head.  Watch movies play games sleep... just make sure to take a multivitamin daily eat hydrate get some exercise and fresh air...What you're thinking and feeling IS temporary and will pass.  Remember that...
Alcoholism has mental physical sides to it's illness so I mean it's not a surprise that you gots problems lots...What seemed to help me more than anything else was finding someone that had it worse than me...I go to the prison at least once a week just so that I can hear this one guy talk about taking a shit in a police car and then from then on out that cop never wanted to pick him up again!..I carried the message up to the psychiatric unit over a hundred times in my short time in Alcoholics Anonymous and the best part of the whole affair was when I walked out of the locked ward like that proved that I was on a better footing than the folks inside the locked ward...I mean you know it takes what it takes but you gotta keep trying different things until you find the noodle that sticks... 
Been there.  In a little over a week from now il will be 23 years since my last drink.  I owe this to the program.  I go to five or more meetings a week.  I work with others.  I read the book and try to follow its direction as best I can...In the time I've been sober I have had several depressive episodes.  The first time I was too closed minded to try medication so I toughed it out.  The second time I tried the medication but it didnt help. The third time I came closer to thinking about suicide than I ever have before.  I tried the medicine therapy prayer more meetings less meetings different meetings diet exercise we could increase the list ad infinitim.  Nothing seemed to help.  Ultimately like the times before it it went away on its own but it was almost a year in hell...Today I am depression free.  I found the answer that works for me and I'm pretty sure it would work for other too.  I learned how to meditate.  I found a teacher and studied a few forms of Buddhist meditation.  I totally immersed in his teaching.  It wasn't easy nor was it always peaceful and pleasant. That came later after some hard work that I didn't always want to do (kind of like the steps!)  Buddhism teaches that all things are temporary both the good and the bad.  Grasping for either and holding on causes suffering.  Meditation teaches us how to see this within our own mind.  Thoughts seem to come out of nowhere (there is always a cause) and then fade away.  Meditation is all about watching this happen without adding anything to it.  When we experience it for ourselves throgh practice life takes on new meaning.    My teacher used to say think of thoughts like a cobra.  If you grab it's head it will bite you.  I you grab it's tail it will bite you.  Just leave it alone and let it pass.  He also taught me to see depression as as a passing tiger.  Grab its tail and you'll get the teeth and claws too...I share this because it was absolutely life changing for me.  I no longer have to worry about depression.  We all have sorrow from time to time but a day of sorrow used terrify me into thinking it would grow and take over like it once did.  ..If you'd like to know more send me a pm.  I've already said more than may be appropriate for this sub but I am more than happy to share my experience and recommend some ways to find a teacher.
I have no advice but please know I am here and listening    ..
At 2and a half years till now I suffered from major depression. I felt like my situation was hopeless. I went to meetings worked the steps did service exercised ate healthy meditated prayed ....and most importantly talked to a therapist and psychiatrist.. The fact of the matter is I needed to find the right medication combination. People I the fellowsh have been through what I've been throughbut they couldn't help me. It was a slow process but I got better 
You can't possibly know how much each one of you has helped me. I'm incredibly grateful for this fellowship and your willingness to be of service. I still don't feel great but I feel worlds better seeing that I'm not as alone as I feel. Thank you so much.../u/rnbwpnt./u/matroyshkadoll./u/HideAndSeek./u/SOmuch2learn./u/infiniteart./u/Rks1157./u/JillybeanTX./u/DOOAB
[deleted]
[deleted]
Hey I hope you still check your messages. I believe that most Alcoholics are indeed dual diagnosed. Personally I have anxiety and paranoia. Many of my friends in the program suffer from depression. In fact Bill W the founder of AA suffered from severe depression. In the later parts of his life he wrote a letter to the AA grapevine called ["The Next Frontier Emotional Sobriety"](http://silkworth.net/aahistory/emotionalsobriety.html). In the letter he basically talks about how AA is amazing at keeping sober but it is not always enough. You need to take further steps in order to remain spiritually/ emotionally sober. There is nothing wrong with seeking help outside of AA what is important is that you do not forget your roots. AA has helped you get sober just because a doctor helps you with your mental illness doesn't mean you can stop going to meetings. I have seen many people make that mistake. AA is amazing but it is not the cure-all for everything. At least in my opinion. 
