-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/38n0db/i_seriously_need_any_help_i_can_get_right_now_any/

I'm sorry and I don't know the rules but Askreddit wouldn't let me submit and I'm in desperate need of help. I'm a recovering alcoholic and have been sober for a year and four months and drinking is the last thing I care to do. I just broke up with my ex (recovering addict) of 9 months yesterday and decided we should just be friends. We are both young and I have my own place but she's still with her parents. She came over earlier tonight to talk and starts going through my phone and computer... ..After reading a text from a girl (literally asked a coworker to cover shift) she freaks out throws my phone at me starts punching me and kicking and attacking me. I tried holding her down but everytime I let go she would get back up and attack me. . I run and hide in the bathroom and lock the door and just start bawling crying and have been since... ..I just don't understand how she could treat me like that and how I can let that happen when I know she can be sweet. She suffers from Borderline Personality disorder and I've done my best to help her through it but its killing me. After sitting in the bathroom bawling she comes back into my apartment bawling and freaking out saying she just relapsed on meth. This literally kills me inside even more after I thought I couldn't hurt any more than I already was. I've never done anything other than drink and hard drugs are something I've never encountered. She tried shoving it under the door for me to flush and I'm freaking out crying because I'm hurting so bad... ..I eventually convince her to call her dad and the whole time while he's on the way she's on the other side of the door bawling telling me how sorry she is and how she just fucked everything up and her 9 months of sobriety. It's literally tearing me apart because I do care for her and I hate hearing her so sad about a mood disorder and drug addiction she can't control. I'm emotionally devastated right now... ..After she left I found out who it was that gave her the meth and it's a guy that I am/was friends with from the local vape shop. He knew me and my ex gf because we were in there all the time and I can't believe he would do this to her and to us. I want to kill him right now and to beat his fucking ass for giving her meth but I can't. My ex texted me saying that if I do anything I will get hurt (by him she knows him a lot better than I do) and if I report him to the cops it's 100% certain that he will know it's me. I don't know what to do I'm heartbroken I can't stop crying but I'm also filled with anger. Please for the love of god help me. 
----------immediate responses--------

