-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/3abcwd/high_anxiety_about_going_back_to_meetings_5/

Hey all figured I would post here for help...I know the important thing is being sober which I have proudly stayed for the 5 months and 28 gruling days. I suffer form clinical depression and conversion disorder so it's an uphill battle each day...I have a high amount of anxiety about going back to any AA meeting in my local area (Indianapolis). I feel like I have let down others by not showing up. I also haven't collected any of my marker tokens besides my 24 hour token. I haven't done my steps. Does anyone else get this? How do you cope with it? ..I don't have a solid support structure as my dad even tried to get me to drink when i started recovery and he doesn't "understand" why I can't have a few drinks. My girlfriend drinks though not to excess and usually asks before hand if we go out. I have found that I am living vicariously through her by buying her a drink for me as well. I don't want to relapse because this is my first real time trying to be sober. ..TL:DR High anxiety about going back after not been to a meeting for 4 months.
----------immediate responses--------

This feeling is absolutely normal and I'll bet that people in the meetings will be glad to see you.  ..You are not the first or only person who after getting sober has 'disappeared' from the meetings.  Fortunately for you you have not taken a drink since your last meeting and so you can go back to the meetings with your head held high.  ..Just show up let people know who inquire that you are well and that you are now ready for meetings whereas before you were not.  Simple as that...You have not let anyone down you have no need to pick up 'back tokens' (although I would pick up the most recent marker for your recovery which depending on the meeting would be 5 months or 90 days just for your own peace of mind) and you do not need to make any excuses for not working the steps...The simple fact is this:  you have now decided that you want support for your decision to stay sober outside of your immediate family and friends.  Meetings are a logical choice for seeking that support so you decided to go.  No further explanation is needed...I have also felt anxiety about showing my face in meetings that I have previously avoided for whatever reason.  Have they assumed I am drunk?  Have they written me off?  Do they think I am anti-social?  It doesn't matter.  I have absolutely no control over what goes on in other people's brains...My discovery in situations like this is that the only way to alleviate my anxiety is just pick a meeting and go the sooner the better.  Otherwise the anxiety will continue to gnaw at me...Your situation is common it is completely understandable and you will very likely be welcomed back with open arms...Thanks for posting.  
I get where you're coming from I've had anxiety surrounding meetings for various reasons. In my experience my fears were always unfounded or totally unimportant once I got into the room. Your feelings are valid but I bet once you step over the threshold they will mostly disappear and be replaced with more pleasant ones. Don't think too hard just let your feet get you in there.
You're overthinking it. If your presence was missed at all nobody will bat an eye at your late return.
..You might be surprised to learn that no one really noticed your absence.  We are just not that important.  Maybe a few people wondered for a day or two but that was months ago and lots has happened in the time that you were gone.  ..Undoubtedly people will be happy to see you and learn that you've been sober but then again those you initially bonded with may have moved on themselves.  Life happens and groups change even without our permission.....
Thanks everyone I feel confident about going back and I will go on my 6 month mark day. I appriciate the support and rational thinking.
I have 20 years sober and I roll in and out. ..No really cares but me. I notice when I haven't been to a meeting in 3 or 4 months.  No one else does except my new homegroup...At 19 years I started going to 2 meetings week. I have missed my regular meetings for weeks now because of work and vacation (was out of state and did 2 meetings in Arizona though last week!) ..I hope you go back.      But honestly it's nothing to stress over.  Everyone has been busy with their own path and hopefully are working THEIR program instead of yours ;) .
