-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/3bsg0o/day_1again/

Coming off of a month long relapse. Starting at home detox today. (I have meds to keep me from seizing.) Wish me luck gang.
----------immediate responses--------

Best of luck to you!  I just came off of a month long relapse as well and am going through day 1.  The first day is the hardest.  Actually the first week is the worst!  You've got this!
I wish you well. It takes more than "luck" to have a sober life. Glad you have meds to help with detox. In times likes this AA meetings and a sponsor were the answer. 
Best of luck!   Live in meetings if you can.   That advice about drinking OJ and corn syrup is sound.  It can help calm  the inner heebiejeebies from the malnourishment your binge reaped on the body.  
GOOD LUCK! You can do it!!!
OP- I highly recommend taking this time to go to as many meetings as you can muster. From one friend of Bill's to another use this time to draw strength from. Surround yourself with other AA's. I also recommend getting a sponsor someone that can be an accountability partner for you that you can call talk and fellowship with. ..Drink plenty of water and help your body flush itself out. Eat...healthy. ..Ask for help as AA's it is our duty to help other alcoholics- by shutting yourself in your home you are denying other AA's opportunity to be of service. ..Back to meetings I can not stress enough finding a home group. My home group is called Day Breakers at 7am 7 days a week. It's about 20-30 people ranging from newcomers to members with 30+ years I go there nearly every morning. Take commitments be a greater be the designated coffee brewer set up chairs plug yourself into a group. You will be accepted and loved...Meeting makers make it. .."Be still and know that I am God" - Big Book..I am praying for you OP!. ..
Congrats! Glad you made it back. When it gets hard (it will) get yourself to a meeting or at least get into one of the chat rooms at StepChat. Being around other people who are going through what you are going through is one of the best things to keep clean and or sober. I know I tried to do it alone a number of times but my brain conspired against me at times. Every time it got bad I would go hang out at an AA/NA/CA place. Some days I stayed all day. I would clean read play solitaire anything. If you live in or near a big city there are clubs that are open almost 24 hours a day so you don't have to be alone...As you have experienced it will get better.  
Hang in there!    
New start and the chance to do this in such a way as to never take another drink. Very positive!
I'm in the same boat as you. On day 3 and getting a little better keep the fight going and good luck
