-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/3djwoy/getting_sober_with_concerta/

Hey Guys! So I'm a college student and am trying to get sober again. I was sober for about 9 months and then relapsed. It's taken me about a year to get back into the rooms. Before alcohol became a problem and after it became a problem I have always struggled with focusing in class and as a result have been prescribed adderall vyvanse and now Concerta. These drugs truly work for me but for some reason now I want to drink when I take them. Right now I'm on the smaller dose of Concerta they make. I've already tried smoking cigarettes (I know not good) but it doesn't seem to curb my cravings. Is this a common side effect for others? I'm just scared that if I stop taking it my already tarnished collegiate academic career that I've worked so hard to repair will suffer once again but on the flip side I can't seem to stay sober more than a couple days when taking it. I don't know what to do. Thank you everyone here. This is a great sub!
----------immediate responses--------

Talk to your psychiatrist and be honest about your drinking.                                 .I couldn't stop without help. A therapist and AA gave me what I needed.                        .Cravings are normal. They are temporary; you can have cravings and not drink. 
As SOmuch2learn said it is best to speak with whoever is prescribing the medication. We are not doctors we generally recommend to avoid narcotic prescribed medication if possible but it all comes down to your personal situation and being open and honest with the medical practitioner. ..Seeking advice in AA is generally best left to a sponsor that knows you on a more personal level. ..Have you been able to plug back into the program? 
One of the unpleasant aspects of picking up a drink after being sober for a while is that sometimes it takes much longer than we would like to reengage with our sobriety again. I don't know exactly why but my last relapse after being sober a while was an 8 month grind of some pretty awful drinking...With your school situation if you cannot find a lasting answer quickly it could cause you a lot of needless grief. Perhaps right now making that your first priority makes sense...FWIW this time back I went through the steps with my sponsor. Hadn't done that earlier.
I was on various ADHD meds between 7 and 23. I was pretty much convinced that I'd never be able to be a success academically without them. They made me feel horrible certainly made me want to drink and seemed to make me act out in other ways. At 23 I got sober and quit all meds. ..I have never felt more "normal" and I graduated college with grades much higher than any I previously achieved. ..Great grades in college won't do much for you if you're a drunk mess. 
