-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/3efnsr/23_m_struggling_with_alcoholism_first_time_user/

So as the title says I'm a 23 year-old male who is currently struggling with my alcoholism. I started drinking when I was a senior in high school at 17 and from then till I was 18 I progressively increased my habits to the point where I can longer make it thru the week without a drink. At first I was drinking with peers but currently I drink more often alone and binge drink when i do...On top of that I've been struggling with severe depression and I'm positive my frequent alcohol use is severely tampering with my mental health. I've been trying to quit drinking for the past 2 years the most I've been able to accomplish sober was 1 month. I normally drink a few fifths a week and I can feel the physical effects on my body at all times. I'm not sure where else to turn. I have a family who loves me a girlfriend of 4 years who adores me and friends who I can turn to yet I'm constantly cutting all contact with everyone who matters to me. ..Even now I'm drunk. Went to my local gas station to get a fifth of their cheapest vodka. I live in a very drunk (per capita) city and I don't want to go to an AA meeting. I hate public speaking and I think I would feel very out of place. I'm just mostly curious if anyone has any tips on quitting that they've found successful. I am very embarrassed at how much I drink life has been very very kind to me but struggling with my depression and alcoholism may just ruin me. Any help would be appreciated. Thanks
----------immediate responses--------

I'm 23 and an alcoholic too my drinking was shameful my behaviour was becoming more and more extreme and so was the damage I was doing to others and myself..I was horribly depressed I felt suicidal and I had great friends an amazing woman and parents I could talk to..I also get really feared up when in a public speaking situation..Weirdly I come from a town where there are a hell of a lot of drinkers too! .I went to my first A.A meeting yesterday night it was great relaxed friendly and if you don't want to speak then you just sit on one of the chairs around the outside of the room no one pressures you..They were all genuinely happy to see someone as young as me making there way to A.A to try and deal with this illness..If it's too much of a big step (It has taken me 5 months to gather the courage.) I recommend you buy the 'big book' (of alcoholics anonymous) 'The Alternative 12 Steps' if God is a touchy topic and also 'The Twelve Steps and Twelve Traditions'..I owe my sobriety so far to those books..You'd be surprised how much the depression lifts when you stop taking in the booze..Good luck brother!
Also 23 and am just getting to around 90 days sober right now. My drinking was also very shameful and like /u/thebeardeddrongo said going to AA doesn't mean you have to share. In my experience thus far AA hasn't been religious at all just spiritual. There is a difference to me. Basically if you want to stop the easiest way to really get help is to go to an AA meeting around you. I can't speak to the way you feel but I can tell you how I felt 90 days ago and how I feel now and why the change has occurred. I was shameful because I was weak. The reason I was weak is because I was trying to hold it all on my shoulders and failing. I needed to ask for help and the reason going to your first meeting and talking to people was and is so important for me is because it is a tangible way to ask for help. Posting in this thread is a tangible way to ask for help  so good job. These are all good things and whether you know it or not you're on the right path to recovery. You need to learn how to do it first and how do you learn anything? You seek out people who have done it and follow their suggestion/lead. Today I feel about 83 times better because it truly get's easier and harder every day. Easier because I know that I have the tools to handle anything harder because I'm taking true stock of and starting to repair the damage my disease has done to me. AA and not the god stuff has given me the tools I need to do those repairs. If you are a logical person my SUGGESTION (because that is all you will ever get in AA there are no rules) is to ask for help.
Both /u/thebeardeddrongo and /u/Silken_meerkat have made plenty of excellent points. I'm going to jump on the bandwagon here and say I got sober when I was 23 (I'm 29 now) so it's definitely the perfect age to pull your life back together with a little outside help...Concerning religion here is a direct quote from the AA Big Book "Those having religious affiliations will find here nothing disturbing to their beliefs or ceremonies. There is no friction among us over such matters. We think it no concern of ours what religious bodies our members identify themselves with as individuals. This should be an entirely personal affair which each one decides for himself in the light of past associations or his present choice." page 28. This obviously includes having no religion! I'm not religious at all but I'm absolutely spiritual. I couldn't use the word God for a long time but that didn't stop my progress through the steps. (I substituted higher power for God)..Dual-diagnosis (like depression and or anxiety coupled with alcoholism) is extremely common among our crowd. I was diagnosed with severe depression before I started working the steps but that has gone away for me and I take no medication for it. ..Drinking alone is a huge red flag. My suggestion is you look for the central office in your city (like Google "Chicago AA central office" for example) and buy a meeting schedule and a Big Book from them. If you don't want to get called on to speak start out by going to speaker meetings and listening to what people have to say. I really want to stress the importance of getting integrated into your city's AA fellowship as soon as you possibly can asking someone you look up to to sponsor you and getting through the 12 steps as fast as possible. You will begin feeling tremendous relief from taking action like this...But remember only do this if you are absolutely ready to stop drinking...Feel free to message me anytime if you have any questions about anything at all!..Good luck!
31M - sobered up 500 some days ago...What I found incredibly helpful was to assemble a team of people I could reach out to - health care provider addictions counselor and an AA group. Those people got me through a lot of tough times...I still attend a weekly AA meeting and see a therapist (but not specifically about addictions)...It's doable - I was a really sick person but I got better. If you attend a Speakers Meeting you won't be asked to share. You simply sit there and listen. Bring a dollar (if you can afford it) to donate to the cost of the meeting.
