-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/3ehwa1/i_havent_been_able_to_catch_a_meeting_and_i_dont/

Hello. ..My name is Max and I am a recovering alcoholic/addict.  I have not been working the best program recently and I have been honest with myself my therapist my significant other and my sponsor about it.  I used to have a few years of clean time but this year has been rough with two horrible relapses...When I don't work a good program be of service go to meetings and the like I am in danger of old thinking and behavior that leads to my relapsing.  ..I know this time being sober is different because I will go to any lengths to stay sober. I mean for god sakes im posting in an AA reddit because I couldn't make the meeting I planned on making today just to ensure that I don't disconnect too much from my HP...Today is a Mormon Holiday in Utah and I had a plan of attending a 3pm meeting but this was kaboshed by the fact that all the errands I needed to run were cut out of "my order" because of the limited holiday hours. I ended up missing the meeting and now I head to work for the rest of the evening.  ..I have to keep turning my will and life over to the power of the god of my understanding.  Everything that is happening is an opportunity to learn something and to use the spiritual tools I have gained over the past few months of being sober this time. ..I will continue to pray for the next right action I will call an alcoholic on my way to work to make sure I am being accountable and I will not put myself in dangerous situations where I could relapse...I am so scared of relapse I don't know that I can survive another one.  Usually when I disconnect from my program I don't feel anxious about it I feel empowered to use.  The fact that I have so much fear I think is a good thing.  It shows how desperate I am to stay sober...I have had multiple opportunities over the past few days to make it to meetings and although my ass is falling off I have made conscious decisions to put off my recovery. My recovery normally comes number one.  My depression has been terrible and I think I need to see my doctor about switching medications again in relation to my PTSD...I don't know that anyone will reply to this but I hope reading the insanity that can take over with just a few days away from the program will help keep someone else sober.  If you have any advice or can share about your strength experience and hope in regards to alcoholism and what you have done when you self sabotage your recovery or disconnect I would appreciate it...<3..
----------immediate responses--------

Good job reaching out! I find these subs to be a helpful complement to meetings. Hopefully they can help you too. 
Stay in the moment. Don't drink today and you won't relapse today. Then make the same decision tomorrow. Don't drink.                                                                           .No.                       .Matter.                                 .What.!
Hi Max! Thanks for the post. I can very much relate. Often it seems like there are external reasons when I don't put my recovery first but there's always *something* I can do. And you did so thanks for the service! Hope you're having a swell evening. 
I've found that the best meetings include me and one other person whether that be my sponsor sponsee or simply just another 12-step member.  And I've found that reading recovery literature with a pen/pencil/highlighter is a wonderful substitute when getting around another alcoholic isn't happening.  Another killer pick me up is listening to speaker tapes like ones found on xaspeakers.org...Remember god could and would if he were sought (not found).
My program works best when I stay in the day. I can't get too worked up about what future standsure needs to do. ..I learnt this the hard way. I had two and a bit years sober when life got real. Mum got cancer and I stepped up as primary carer. I was legitimately busy and meetings dropped to two a week. ..This went on for a few months and even though I called my sponsor daily almost I started getting choppy and resentful at work at my home group and things were not running smoothly. ..My will was back. ..I scared myself badly.  I never want to relapse. It took me 18 years to get back to the rooms this time. I'm lucky to get it but by god I work hard. ..Speaking at prisons and rehabs helped keep me tied to my recovery enough. I've learned a new respect for my capacity for denial and my disease. ..By putting sobriety first I get to be there for my mum when she needs me like she never has and in a way I could never manage drinking. ..I look at my sobriety and know it's not mine. I'm the custodian and if I treat it disrespectfully I'll lose the privilege. ..PS: recovering from PTSD too. that's a longer story. 
So....update?  Did you walk though things and find some balance?
