-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/3fpas9/struggling_here/

Hey guys...9 months of sobriety. I'm struggling right now. I haven't had a physical drink but emotionally I'm gone...I've been to one meeting in the past week and a half and will be at one after work tomorrow. I don't know what's going on with me. My sponsor is out of town. My SO doesn't understand alcoholism and his skepticism is wearing off on me though I know it's not intentional and I haven't told him that...I haven't shared at a meeting in a while. I feel apart from my homegroup. Instead I've found myself fantasizing about drugs and alcohol. What should I be doing? Please send something positive. Remind me why I'm here and what got me to this point. ..
----------immediate responses--------

I don't know much about AA and I feel a little guilty posting in this thread I just felt people in similar situations would understand... ..anyway... 9 months of sobriety is a really long time! Congratulations! I've actually wanted to quit and didn't think it was so difficult because I didn't have a drinking problem but quitting is difficult whether you feel like you need to or not. So continue the progress. You've done 9 months. That's amazing. Keep it up! Think about how it feels to take control of your life style choices. Seriously you are living better because you made yourself live better. I'd suggest thinking more about how you've progressed how good it feels. I don't think thoughts about alcohol are bad it's okay to think about it because you're thoughts don't control you. You control your actions. Again 9 months... keep it up!!!!! 
Meetings usually change the world for me.....keep up the good work I believe this will pass for you because I can relate to what you're saying and it passes for me. In the meantime read the big book? Pray if you want. Or go to several meetings sometimes I need two in a day when I'm feeling nuts.
Thank you for your honesty. It takes a lot of courage to tell the truth like that especially when you're struggling...If you want some words of encouragement:.This too shall pass. Don't leave before the miracle happens. You are worth more than a drink. You can always drink later it doesn't have to be today...If you want some direction:.Call your sponsor and tell her/him the same thing you wrote in this post. Go to this next meeting and tell them the same thing. Then go to your homegroup and say it again. Then go to a meeting you haven't been to before and say it AGAIN. ..I hope you hear what you need to in order to stay sober for another 24 hours and hopefully you can find some serenity along the way.
For AA to work you have to make connections coffee connections tea connections krumpets connections let's go to a movie connections. .When you connect make friends you have people involved in your life who care enough to hug and ass kick. ..It may seem hard in the beginning but its not. ..When you start doing that you will notice when someone asks 'how are you doing?' they really want to know. .
It wasn't until I took the steps the best of my ability that I experienced the kind of transformation the book describes. I recommend going through them as outlined in the book and practice applying them to your life. Also get commitments at your meetings. 
You know how when you are worried or stressed? Your brain just won't stop and there's nothing you can do about it. You get this heavy frustrated sigh that comes occasionally only to reset the obsession so it can build again into yet another sigh? I get that too.....It seems the only relief comes when i drink or use. Then i get to relax. I can breathe again. Maybe for a few minutes at least. If i do more maybe I'll relax more or maybe I'll just be oblivious and I'll deal with the stress tomorrow when i wake up. For now I'll use and breathe a sigh of relief. ..At least that's how i used to operate. The next day was never any better and almost always worse. Getting sober and finding a balance between life and sobriety is something we all go through. Today i have that 'sigh of relief' feeling almost always. It was a slow buildup over time though not the quick fix i was used too. The more i stayed involved in recovery the more i felt relief. And the relief isn't tainted by all the shit I'm trying not to think about. It's effing incredible. Please try it. Don't pick up. The shit's not worth it.
Hey call someone in aa. Doesn't matter who just same sex. Tell them what's up. When you're done if you still don't feel better call someone else repeat until it gets better. If you've called everyone and not feeling better pray ask a God that you understand or misunderstand to help you out. Take it easy. Hang in there there's great rewards to the program. I promise they will come. ..I sometimes was just where you were but I hung on for dear life. And sometimes that's all you can do is hang on. Call sponsor. Talk to someone other than the committee in your head. Another alcoholic. ..They will understand disease is lonely. I drunk and we stayed sober. We're all sick but one way or another we help each other out. Please hang on
Share this feeling at your next meeting.  It works for me when I'm out of sorts (running on self will or fear usually). stepping up your meetings won't hurt either. I was struggling earlier this year with two meetings a week. ..New comers and  ID meetings remind me why I don't want to go back to where I was..Shudders. 
Tell us why you ever went to AA in the first place?...I know why I went. I didn't want to die that evening after the blackout that I knew would happen with a shotgun shell blast through my head. Seemed like a good enough reason to me to seek help....Why did you seek help? If you are confused you can always get another sponsor. It's not a marriage. I've found that thinking of it as a cooperation works better for me....My wife doesn't understand it either but she understands this much she doesn't want to see me drink again....Wife or no wife job or no job I didn't stop drinking to please anyone. It was fear. Fear of death. Real death physical death suicide I'd finally realized that I was going to do it and I became afraid of myself so I sought help and that help works better if I don't drink.
Yeah.... the funk sets in it. ..When I get funky I up my meetings clean ;)  and make a list of why I 'expect'. ..Usually I find I am 'expecting' something... out of life my partner my friends my fellowship... whatever. ..When I have been unhappy with my quality of sobriety I usually have to change something.  ..What is missing from YOUR life - that is leaving you discontent?  ..Hugs and support.  Hang in there because sometimes it's just a funk and it - for me - always passes as long as I don't drink! ..
If you're going through hell keep going. ...I'd echo what others have said. Go to a meeting share openly &amp; honestly repeat. Often for me the best part of a meeting can be someone sharing that they are struggling but using the program to get through. You can do it. Just keep doing the next right thing. 
I also suffer from severe emotional problems when I'm sober.  It has led me through decades of relapse issues...  ..What saved me is the thought; "Never quit quitting."  No matter what happens you'll be OK if you keep that in mind...One of my sponsors once said "Emotions?"  "Only a sissy bases his behavior on emotions."  
Check out /r/stopdrinking. 
You already know the answer.  Go to a meeting.  Share.  Get involved.  Talk to your sponsor if you have one and if you don't find one.  .You have nine months which is great but get your ass to a meeting..
I can relate. My enthusiasm and commitment toward recovery comes and goes. When it's gone I feel that sense of impending doom and I'm just waiting for the other shoe to drop. I feel stranded and alone and my faith in God as I understand God is hanging by a thread. But as long as you are sober at this moment you can change things for yourself but change won't happen without some action. When I am in a funk and becoming willing to change my perspective my sponsor always tells me to pray go to a meeting talk to another alcoholic about what's really going on and call him after I've done those things. I was told once to remember that an object in motion tends to stay in motion and an object at rest tends to stay at rest. Though it may seem like a lot to get going once you start moving it is easier to keep the momentum going. And that no one among is has been able to maintain perfect adherence to the principles. We are not saints. Don't get down on yourself. Just share what's been so freely given to you. 
Sorry I'm late to the party but here's my advice:  you've got to fall in love with AA and being sober.
