-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/3fspf2/anyone_else_have_conflicts_with_their_s0_and_aa/

Hi all.  I created a new account just for writing to this sub.  I wanted to ask if anyone else in a committed relationship has problems or conflicts that have come about as a result of AA?  Well not directly a result of working the program but more of a mismatched priority list.  I've been in the program for about 7 months now with one major relapse after 60 days and what I feel like is another one right around the corner.  For most of my adult life I've been a highly-functional alcoholic but as time goes on that balance between functioning and failing has started to tip.  I realized I wasn't just "having fun" or "relaxing" anymore early this year and decided to do something about it...I also happen to be married and have two young children (my son is almost 4 and my daughter is only 3 months old). My wife is able to stay at home with our daughter while I take my son to pre-school during the week...I've found that attending meetings is getting harder and harder.  I feel like I have a choice of: A) Missing my meeting and being present with my family.B) Attending meetings after work or in the evening usually this means a guaranteed fight with the wife because I'm not there to put my son to bed or I'm unable to help with the housework that happens between those few precious hours between kids going to bed and when it is time for me to turn in...At the moment I happen to be visiting my wife's family on the east coast. There are only a handful of meetings here. Today there were meetings at 6 a.m. another at 7 pm and another at 8 p.m. I decided to attend the 8 p.m.  I've also just had an disagreement with my wife about attending. Despite the grandparents being here I'm still necessary for getting my son to bed and my wife said (and I quote) "You're not at home and you're not alone you need to stop thinking about yourself and your problems.  I'll support you going to a meeting but it needs to be at a time that is convenient for everyone not just you". So we looked over the calendar it turns out that the 6 a.m. meetings are the only ones that are some-what convenient for the rest of the family though not for me in any way.  ..I should also mention that I'm working remotely which means I'm sitting in my father-in-laws basement conveniently right next to the liquor cabinet for 8-10 hours a day.  I think I'll have to go buy a wireless router to get myself out of this space looking at the booze and knowing that I could easily drink here while everyone else is in bed and no one else would know has crossed my mind...But enough with my whining. Has anyone else had disagreements or differing priorities in your relationships when it comes to AA?  I know that whatever you put in front of sobriety you lose. It feels like the deck is stacked though... If I put family before sobriety I can't attend meetings or find the space/time to work the program.  If I put sobriety before my family I feel like the strain would break the already-stressed relationship with my wife.  Any advise here?  
----------immediate responses--------

There are some things that may help your situation. I can't tell you what to do about your relationship with your wife and family as that is something you should definitely speak to your sponsor about. I'll only mention that Al-Anon may help some misunderstandings/disagreements you've explained...When I can't make a meeting or I have way too many life commitments going on at once I usually:..- Call a fellow alcoholic/sponsor and explain everything you're going through. Chances are they've been through it too (to some extent). This is usually the best option. Nothing is like speaking with another alcoholic who can recognize and relate to some issues in sobriety...- Read your Big Book/Grapevines! They are there to read when you can't necessarily be at a meeting and always leave you with something!..- Listen to AA speaker tapes. It's a great way to 'attend a meeting' without leaving the comfort of your own home. You can listen to them while you work drive or walk anywhere. There's TONS of them on Youtube...I resort to these activities when it is inconvenient for me to spend an hour and a half away from home/others and it has certainly helped me when I've felt like you do...Best of luck!
Where on the East coast? I'm a Rhode Islander and we have Hundreds of meetings a week. 
When they lose the ability to manipulate you while you are drunk- they double up on the wanting to control you. I have this same issue. Same deal. 2 kids - have had trouble for 20 years over similar issues. Didn't have troubles until I quit drinking. She lost her drinking buddy and wasnt ready to adult up to the next level with me. ..Being controlling is NOT the same as being in control..Good luck. If she gets into a good Al Anon group- she might take her focus off of you and take a look at herself.  Good luck with that.
There needs to be some give and take here. It sounds like she's not understanding that your meetings are essential for your sobriety and you cannot just flake out on them. Has she read "To The Wives" from the Big Book? ..My husband has been frustrated from time to time with the fact that my morning meetings are at 10:00--prime time for us to be getting a lot of work done in the mornings outside. It's too hot at noon. But he also understands that without my meetings I can go off the rails pretty quickly. Nothing comes before your sobriety--you're right. Al-Anon is another good suggestion for *her* but she needs to want it. I'm sorry you're having these issues. Go to your 0600 meetings while you're there. They're a nice way to start the day. Going to any length right? :) If she can see that you're serious about your meetings it may be helpful in resolving the issue.
Hiya thanks for the post. Yes. A lot of us hit this mark in our sobriety. For me once I had worked the steps started working with others and had over a year my recovery started to show in all parts of my life. I got better at work I was a better father a better friend and a much better husband...Of course it was like I had been away for years and I was now back. Everyone wanted their time. Everyone deserved their makeup time. I had a hard time learning to balance my recovery and my life but with the help of my AA friends my home group and my sponsor I am continuing to get better at it...I had a lot of missed years to make up and I was taught that good healthy quality family time is doing step work. What I found was that I get better at it the more I do it...Like the others have typed there are many online resources speaker tapes books and of course we can get a regular phone list going.  XA-speakers.org has hours of free speaker mp3s. Stepchat and some other AA sites have scheduled mature and strong online meetings. There is this place called Reddit.com that has lots of cat pictures and some recovery too. ..I only get to go to not enough meetings a week. If I am lucky four if work is hard only two. But I call people daily read something each day try to respond to something at Reddit once a day (when I was hurting bad years ago - someone at Digg really helped me - so I try to return the favor) and I listen to speaker tapes...After a while you will find a balance. I tried to get my wife to go to Alanon but it didn't fit with her. After a couple of weak conversations with my wife I just told her that this is something I need not want need. I need it to stay healthy strong and good so that I can be the man of her dreams and the father I always wanted to be. I offered to always let her come but I need the meetings. ..After a few months of getting caught up she figured a way to handle it...Anyway congrats and thanks for sharing...C
Yes ....so I asked her if she thought it would be better if I started drinking Gin again. She said no so I said I'm going to a meeting...For me doing Alcoholics Anonymous helps me. If my wife and kids could have kept me sober then they would have but they didn't and that's the end of it.
My friend Brian can relate to this.  He's tried inviting her to meetings and sometimes she joins.  You gotta think this is why they started Alanon....a lot of the SO's were feeling kind of abandoned.
My home group meets at 6:15 am 7 days a week. Having 17 years sober I have come to learn that is the best time of day to attend a meeting! It gets the day going well rarely interferes with family activities and is filled with people serious about recovery. And I can still easily get to work by 8.  I still do the things I did in early sobriety--that's the key. I go to meetings work the steps call my sponsor work with others and pray. I own my own business and have 2 children. Neither sponsor had children and that does not matter at all. The important thing is they know the big book. You may need to try some more controlled drinking in order to truly understand powerlessness and that's okay too. Going to meetings is important and so is family. There is a way to do both if you really want to but it Amy not always be convenient! Best wishes to you--hope you get a sponsor that calls you back and knows the steps. To me that is much more important than if they have children!
My husband is an active alcoholic so frankly he hates when I go to meetings that interfere in any way with anything...That said I was told early in my recovery that everything I put in front of my recovery I will lose eventually - that I have to put my recovery first no matter what - I have found this to be a truthful statement.
