-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/3fstv3/ok_wife_died_october_2014_been_on_a_relapse_since/

One thing that complicates things for me is that I used pot to get away from the alcohol for 5 pleasant years...  but I don't want to go back to pot this time...I'm thinking of checking into a halfway house for the first couple of weeks - I have pretty severe physical and very bad psychological problems whenever I quit cold turkey...Any encouragement welcomed.
----------immediate responses--------

The Marijuana Maintenance Program yup...If you are thinking that it is going to be rough try a detox or see your doc...But I am a retread too welcome to the club.  But it was the best thing I ever did and if you stick to it you will see that too...Good luck!
Thanks for your encouragement...I just worry about my stability being pure sober after all these decades.  Oh well brave new world...Maybe I'll even experience personal growth - a real rarity for someone nearing 60.
Hiya congrats on making it this far. I was in similar situations but I couldn't get clean by myself. I had to surround myself with recovery. Rehab halfway house sober living houses and AA houses are all good things. It will feel like a lifetime those two or four weeks but the end of the tunnel is worth it. If you have the time go to as many meetings as you can each day. It is easier to start when you are around people who did exactly what you are doing...Congrats again. Report back. We would love to hear from you...C
Hugs and my deepest support!     ..I am sorry about your wife. :(  .Sounds like a new plan and new path is in order!  .Let us know how things go. 
It's good to hear you refer to your homegroup. Letting them in on what's been going on will allow them to give you assistance with the changes you want to make...Also I'm very sorry to hear you lost your wife. My condolences for your loss.
Encouragement here. Glad you are coming back and we welcome you.
Thanks all - this is a great subreddit for recovery..
Welcome back. It sounds like you are thinking of ways that you can help ensure success! Seeking a half way house or intensive therapy is a great idea. 
