-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/3hlb8m/after_3_years_im_confused_with_the_program/

I'm currently a member of Alcoholics Anonymous but I'm struggling. I was born and raised in an unorthodox Christian cult. While attending AA meetings I have many dejavu moments. I don't think AA in itself is a cult but it reminds me of one. I'm literally in emotional pain...The "us versus them" mentality doesn't vibe with me. As a child I was taught that I was not part of the world but that I had to live in it. Consequently whenever I go out with normal non-AA people I don't feel connected. I feel like I live among them but I don't feel like one of them. ..After 3 years it's weird to me that AA has it's own language. It's weird to me that a lot of my AA friends are unable to discuss their lives without using AA's nomenclature. ..So for instance instead of saying "I had an awful day at work and told of a coworker" they'll say "I was in defect today and acted on a resentment that I'll now have to make an amend for." To a non-AA this sounds like crazy talk. And you know what? It sort of is...Sure I understand that I create all of my problems. I get it. But I'm sick of going to meetings where I'm told that I'm selfish and self centered and that I can't rely on my own understanding. I'm sick of being told AA is the only way. Come on seriously? The Big Book was published in the late 30s was not peer reviewed by the medical community and has not been revised since then to include new scientific research on addiction. And you're going to tell me it's the end all to this problem?..The whole emphasis on spirituality is weird too. You're going to tell me that of all the diseases that exist I have the only one that's spiritual? The logical odds of that occurring are extremely slim. I get the three part approach to this disease. But why insist on spiritual when psychological seems to fit better?..And what bothers me the most is the identity issue. Creating a new identity is what high control groups use to control people. Why even identify as an AA? Why not be simply somebody who doesn't drink? While a diabetic spends a big part of their life fighting their disease I doubt that diabetes is as a large a makeup of their identity than alcoholism is for us. And that bothers me. In a weird way I think it's keeping me sick...All of this became more apparent to me when I attended a meeting at a sister fellowship last night. I attended a CODA meeting and it struck me by the language used that they view themselves as normal people struggling with codependency. Not as codependents first members of CODA second and normal people last. At no point did I hear that I was selfish and self centered and that I couldn't rely on my own understanding. I felt so good there...But it left me wishing AA was more like that. I'm just so confused and lost right now.
----------immediate responses--------

I found that until I had told each thing about myself to at least one other person admitted them to myself and to God I could not find true humility and a measure of happiness. Whenever something comes up I can honestly say that I know it another person knows it and God knows it. It takes a really long time to get there but you will and that is where serenity is. So go to meetings socialize with AA people don't drink make the phone calls and take that inventory really seriously. AA is not the answer for everyone. But your addiction also wants you to give up so probably talking to someone irl at meetings is best. I still think if noone ever shares their discontent at meetings they do everyone there a disservice rob themselves of input from others that could help and keep others from feedback that could speak to their situation too. I only have 3y and it's taken a long time to get totally honest although the recovery journey began some 13y ago.
Good stuff and I agree with much of what you said...I'd suggest going to more big book meetings and fewer discussion meetings...The program of recovery is outlined in the book not meetings...The trouble with AA is that it's meetings are full of alcoholics!! We love to over analyze and abstract think our way into all sorts of absurdities...At the end of the day I go to AA for the results. My life has never been better...I just have to remember to never take myself too seriously...AA isn't perfect but I have to accept that and look for the similarities in myself and other members. Clancy always said that he had an open invitation extended to other recovery organizations that he welcomed open discussion between alternative viewpoints. The only thing is that no superior programs ever came forward...Recently I attended the 80th international convention and saw thousands of recovered people...I think I'll stick around in AA.  I have to fall in love with AA periodically.
I had to go to lots of different meetings and wade through lots of bullshit by lots of different people and then start carrying the message as I experienced it to treatment centers and prisons I started working big events and got past the crap that some really messed up people try to pass off as *the program*.....So you were in a cult when you were a kid. Get therapy (you probably already have.)..There are plenty of cultish people in AA because that crap seems to work with them because they were probably born that way get over it...If AA is going to be a great place to be alive then it takes the willingness honesty and open mindedness to admit what's wrong with it and do the work to make it a better place.....You can't shine shit and as long as broken bums are trying to play king shit on turd mountain it won't get better. ..Grab a shovel and a bag and help clean up the turds.
I've felt the same way. I don't buy into any of that though - I get along just as well with a aa's as non aa's - but there's something to be said for the bond you can forge with another alcoholic. Lots of us are prone to oversimplification and generalization. Especially where recovery is concerned - if I did aa a certain way and it worked then I'm naturally going to believe very strongly that it's the ONLY way. Why? It's called mortality salience - social psych 101 - basically if what I did isn't the right way I could drink and die so I'm damn well going to simplify and assume that it's the only way. ..Some people make it very culty - that works for them. The structure and the support helps them. I personally find that kind of pathetic and immature but good for them. I avoid those kinds of meetings but I love AA. I even love talking to those people and I'll use aa lingo with them because that's something we share. That's the same way I'll use special terms in my job or school - same thing. ..What helped me was to recognize that I'm unreasonable and judgmental in many ways - that's normal. I'm human. So are the other people in the program. Let them be human too :) 
I can say I have struggled with the exact same thing -- and in fact I read this article one about how AA as a group resembles all of the qualifications that the FBI uses to identify cults (Though I think the author was exaggerating a lot of traits in AA). ..All of that said sort of where I landed with it is AA suffer's from the same fate as any other organization -- its populated by human beings and worse than that self centered egotistical people largely. On top of that a fair amount of people in AA these days are court ordered there and are not necessarily the type of alcoholic described on page 21 of the book they just got a DUI -- and thus may not be the type of drinker AA was really meant for. ..So you have a lot of politics and mixing of personalities in the fellowship people obsessed by power and prestige within the rooms or people who want to judge others to feel superior -- the rooms are full of sick men and women and many of them are suffering...What I try to remember is and this is what I was taught when I first got sober that I do not go to meeting for myself. I go to meetings to be available to newcomers who need my help. My life today depends on constant thought of others and reliance on a power greater than myself -- not reliance on some group of people in a room. ..My personal recover is doing the work I need to as detailed in the book to retain clarity in my life and connect to that power in the universe that is bigger than me.  That is what works for me and going to meetings is not really part of that work. Going to meeting is what I do to stay in touch with a few friends and connect with people who may need or want my help...tl;dr AA is full of assholes like anyother group of people in the world; I try and just stay in touch with the spirit of the work and the AA way of life and let the fellowship be what it is using it as a pool for candidates to sponsor through the work. ..
You are right about the cult thing. The belittling of individuality ("You can't trust yourself but you can trust us") the obsession with being different the readings the insistence on admitting transgressions and creating a new identity. It's Cult 101. But hey it works. So I just have to get over it you know?
The CODA meetings I went to helped me to not allow other people drive me nuts.  I firmly believe those meetings helped me stay sober.  But some CODA's sure do know how to belt 'em down :-)..Can't have everything :-)
Hi my names Terracnosaur and I'm an alcoholic (haha)..So... I've been going to meetings and am also in a recovery program...Something I've noticed (and feel free to call me on my judgmental attitude here) is... ..Alcoholics (myself included) are obsessive and lack some self control with alcohol and drugs but also in other aspects of our lives as well. This is most likely why we're alcoholics. We don't know when enough is enough with booze/drugs and I am finding with other things as well. So take away one obsession and we'll usually replace it with another. Helping others meditation exercise diets you name it we can find a way to abuse it. Sort of like how a lot of people at AA / NA meetinga smokes. That's an addictive drug. Just not the one we're concerned about quitting even though all evidence supports that it is also harmful dangerous expensive and can kill you. ..We need to go overboard on everything it seems. This might just be my opinion but being able to moderate does not seem to be in our genes. ..Again this is just my perception and it might be fuled by anger and internal judgements but it's something I'm starting to notice...However when you notice something that gives you power over it to change. So you've noticed the "culty" type behavior. That's great now you can keep that in mind during your interactions and not let yourself get caught up on it. ...Just take this as an opinion and a reflection maybe not even a correct one.
You're not alone. I'm coming up on three years and relate to the majority of what you wrote. There are many people in my meetings who are incapable of having a regular conversation without referencing the big book or the twelve steps in some fashion. 
[deleted]
FYi AA does not claim to have a monopoly on recovery but offers a solution that has worked for millions of alcoholics of all ages cultures economic and educational backgrounds where other solutions have failed..Any a$$h@le can have an opinion. The literature is where you can find where the opinions end and find the actual AA stance on recovery.
