-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/3hsyxo/how_to_find_the_right_meeting/

Hello first off this isn't for me but a buddy. Today a friend of mine broke down. And it all sounded very familiar because my brother is in the program. I grew up watching his struggle with alcohol and substance abuse. I've also watched him have success with his on again off again relationship with AA (mostly on these days). Anyway i let my friend talk and he cant just be happy alone. And with out getting to in depth it all came down to him needing an escape from him self. I danced around it because in my experience people get really defensive if they are confronted about being an alcoholic. But ultimately i suggested AA And it took a while and a few bro tears but he was really receptive. I told him i would go with him sit out side if need be. I told him I would find a meeting and we could go together. I really just want him to get through the door even if he has to lean on me to get there. But after looking into it. Their are all these different "meeting types". Like "open speaker nonsmoker" i think if i can find a meeting for this weekend it will increase the chances of him actually going. Will any old open meeting be okay for a new guy? Thanks in advance! Hope this is okay here
----------immediate responses--------

Open meetings welcome the public (meaning you can go in if you wish). Closed meetings are restricted only to people who want to stop drinking. At non-smoking meetings you uh can't smoke...The place to start in your situation is an open discussion or beginners meeting. That way you don't have to cool your heels in the car. A beginners meeting if available focuses on issues related to getting started in AA. A discussion meeting may be about any topic.
How wise of you not to push him and to recognize that that raises the defenses many times. Any open meeting will allow you to attend and often they will ask "is there anyone here for their first meeting who would like to tell us your first name?"  If you or your friend identify yourself as attending for the first time (you don't have to say you're an alcoholic) often they will have a step one or newcomer meeting. These are almost always excellent meetings since people share on how they came to recognize the true nature of their problem and concede to their innermost self they were alcoholic.  Best wishes--your friend is lucky to have you!
Every AA meeting has its own character and content.  Some are loud others quiet.  Some are strict some lenient.  some are personality-driven some not...But without knowing the specifics of every meeting in your area and the general personality type of your friend it would be impossible to predict which meeting in your area would be a best fit...However for starters and meeting designated as 'open' would welcome both your friend and yourself without needing to qualify either of you as alcoholic.  Go there and also hold out the idea that if this one meeting doesn't seem a good 'fit' then there may be other meetings in the area more copacetic...AA meetings are a bit like bars.  They all have the same general purpose and feel but the clientele can change from room to room.
