-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/3kf46e/advice_for_dealing_with_a_chronically_relapsing/

[deleted]
----------immediate responses--------

I understand your predicament but I think you nailed it with the "your side of the street" comment. It's not your responsibility to monitor and report on your family member's sobriety (or lack thereof). The only requirement for membership is "a desire to stop drinking" and there are no AA police. 
Yeah I have been to several meetings where the chairperson was either very new or just kind of weird. It happens. AA attracts all types and everyone is equal. I personally vote with my presence. If I don't like the direction a certain meeting is going I find another one. ..All it takes to start a new meeting is a resentment and a coffee pot :)
I probably shouldn't post while mad but fuck it. ..I have an idea stop being a selfish bastard. ..Here is what I get from your post...&gt;I myself am no longer active in 12-step groups...AA saved my life so I have deep respect for the program..&gt;Attendance is low often 2-3 people during the summer closer to 10 other times. There aren't many other meetings nearby so this one is surely important for those who attend. ..&gt; the guy running the meeting at times isn't sober [wording mine]..&gt;I want to passively aggressive give the guy literature that he is doing AA wrong [wording mine]..Fuck you.  He doesn't know better. He's drunk. He's an active alcoholic. Mean while your ungrateful ass says that you care about the damage he does to AA? No you don't. If you actually cared about AA you'd still be showing up...There are only 2-3 people at this meeting at times! And from your post probably only 1 is sober! What if when you had walked in the door no one was sober? ..What would have happened to you?.
In cases like this Al-anon is generally a good move...There are NO other meetings in your area?  If there are I bet they're better attended.  The sort of meeting you describe would have nothing to attract me.  It probably won't last long...AA published literature lists no sobriety requirement for chairing meetings. (Help me if I'm wrong.)  I don't personally care for the term "leading" but tradition 2 uses it in a different form.
As you are aware our membership includes anyone with a desire to stop drinking whether they are sober or not.  I don't know of any literature that suggests a "leader" have a certain amount of sobriety.  And I'm not really sure what you mean by leader.   Most groups have a chair person that's serves a term  between elections and each group maintains its own rules and guidelines for chair person requirements.  ..Even more important is that it really isn't your concern if you're not a member of his group or participating in the program.    He hasn't the power to ruin Alcoholics Anonymous any more than you have the power to fix what isn't broken.  If it is a problem for the group they will deal with it in their own way...
Many people talk about "your sobriety"   that's what it is yours. .. Do you never judge.  It can be hard and seem unfair.  That is your unfair not theirs.   ..Live and let live the fact that they are there at all says something  some carry shame well.  I noticed that and when I break I am very happy coming back and knowing why I am there..
