-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/3qpmd1/trying_to_figure_out_how_to_be_happy/

Recently I had relapsed after 4 almost 5 years of miserable sobriety.  I started the steps in year one and never finished them.  Didn't have a sponsor and went to meetings purely for the fellowship and not the meetings or the message.  Currently I have 1 year 4 months and some change.  I've gone through the steps with a sponsor.  I'm helping others when asked or given the oppurtunity.  But I'm still not happy...Currently I am homeless and the only option for my living situation is to live in a tiny apartment in a tiny room in a not so great area that is almost an hour drive from my work.  The reason I am "homeless" is because I got kicked out of my parents house for exhibiting addict behavior in which is one of my biggest character defects I won't get into details.  I need advice....I just want to be fucking happy.
----------immediate responses--------

[deleted]
[deleted]
Idk we aren't promised happiness per se. We get a new freedom and a new peace. Sobriety 24 h at a time is compatible with extreme poverty and things will improve. I found that my friends based primarily on my own drug-seeking and alcohol-seeking behavior as well as my friends related to sex behaviors and those geared toward financing the above fell away as I gained more sobriety and self-awareness. I think eventually they get replaced with more authentic program people although I have not experienced that yet. I have high standards for honesty and try to be more careful with my motives. As long as your own program is in order you will get to the Promises and a mighty happy life. Not everyone sinks as far as you and I have nor in my case is as victimized- but living resentment free is a huge first step. I got so worried about losing the above that I relapsed and it turns out they were never really there in the first place- so there was never anything to lose but myself. Everything you are meant to have  you will have. Just keep doing the work and try to be gentle with yourself.
I just for your personal knowledge I am a 27 year old male.
The promises come to mind here..."Are these extravagant promises? We think not. They are being fulfilled among us. Sometimes quickly sometimes slowly they will always materialize if we work for them."..If you wish to be "happy" to have peace and serenity it sounds like you may finally be on the right track. ..Continue with the program honestly. Keep doing the next right thing. Ask for help!
Happiness is so difficult to find in sobriety as we no longer have our drugs/alcohol to cover those feelings.  I was finally able to get some relief in sobriety when I started working on my ninth step and then continued twelfth step work.  Sometimes carrying the message to another alcoholic is the greatest medicine for the soul.  Whenever I am feeling down I reach out to someone ANYONE and just talk about sobriety.  Go to meetings with people early in recovery and talk to the newcomer.  See where they are.  I promise you will start to see where the program has given you some amazing gifts.  ..Best of luck man .-(25 year old male with a little over a year)
Go to meetings clean house trust in your Higher Power and you will be contacted.  Happiness is overrated and I look for balance.  I am over 17 years sober and still struggle at times with various self-defined measurements of happiness and managing my character defects.  It is one day at a time for all of us.  I do recall the first 18 to 24 months of sobriety and how elusive happiness was for me.  My brain and body was still healing from all damage I had done and would completely short circuit at times.  I had a medical doctor in recovery tell me that studies show it takes at least 18 months for the body to physiologically repair itself from the damage excessive alcohol and drugs does.  My experience supports this.  Keep doing what you are doing and then do some more!!
In order to be happy I had to learn the difference between gratitude and gratification...Self-gratification to me means that I have everything that I want - a house car job; sex prestige security all sorts of ego satisfactions.  If I were to make a list of everything I need to become gratified the list would literally be endless as there would always be 'something else' that I would discover I lacked once the things I strive towards had been attained...Gratitude on the other hand is a state of being in which I accept that I have everything I need to make myself useful productive and helpful to others despite a lack of material rewards for such actions as well as a clear recognition that whatever the circumstances I have done my very best to be a good person each day...When I came to a point in my recovery that I could honestly say to myself that I was being the best person I knew how to be despite falling far short of perfection and I was able to put my head on my pillow at night convinced that the mistakes I made that day had a chance of being made right tomorrow I realized that I was happy despite a lack of material rewards for my behavior...In short  my goals had to change in order to find happiness.
