-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/3sk303/i_need_advice_about_my_dad/

My dad is an alcoholic. He has been for my entire life. My mother hid it from my brother and me pretty well when we were younger and he finally got sober when I was 5 or 6. He didn't have any relapses (that I know of) until I was about 16 or 17. That's when I learned the truth about it. They were ugly but he would always go back to normal after about a two week bender. ...Well I'm now 25 and the benders are becoming more and more frequent. He's horrible to my mother who is a saint and takes care of him. I'm living across the country and they seem to pop up when I'm coming home for a visit which I am in about a month. ..I know he suffers from depression. He knows he has a problem and he always cries and says how he's going to get better but refuses to go to AA or receive any type of therapy or medication. My family and I are at the end of our rope. I'm trying to hold on because I love him but the father I know and love is just slipping away with every drink. ..Can anyone give me some advice on what I can do? If there's anything I can do? I'm getting married next year and I want him to be there more than anything but I can't trust him not to drink. It's getting to the point where I'm thinking I should just tell him he can't come if he doesn't stop. ..But ultimatimums don't work. ..I'm just losing hope and I could just use some advice.
----------immediate responses--------

Hiya I know your pain. My mother was very sick with alcoholism and we had to work hard to minimize the damages she could do in our lives...Go ask this exact same question at /r/AlAnon.  Also look up your local Alanon chapters and go to a few meetings. The Alanon website http://al-anon.org/ is full of great information.  
Ultimatums rarely work with drunks but if you go to a few AlAnon meetings you will figure that out...However rather than tell him what you think HE ought to do telling him what YOU plan to do if he keeps drinking might be effective in making realize the consequences of his behavior...Make an honest presentation to him about how you feel about his drinking and a list of actions that you intend to take if he continues including whether or not you plan to protect your Mother from abuse limiting contact with family not inviting him to events etc.  Make no threats make no demands just calmly present to him exactly what steps you feel you need to take if his drinking continues to escalate.  ..Sometimes people who drink need to hear the truth as they are often deep in denial about the effect their drinking has on others.
I'm sorry to hear you are going through this.  In my experience there is zero you can do to change his drinking if he refuses to get help.  However what you *can* do is set healthy boundaries and tell the truth about his behavior and how it affects you.  That at least gives him the opportunity to accept his problem.  He may not but I do find that it is most loving to tell the truth and set boundaries even if the other person doesn't like it. You're right ultimatums and promises haven't worked and most likely won't start working now.  I hope you do follow up with AlAnon as other posters have suggested.  Lots of folks who have had to navigate similar situations.
"Dad I love you and that will never change no matter what. I want you to walk me down the aisle on my most important of days but only if you are sober and working some kind of program."..Man those words. So easy to type. So hard to say. I've been sober for 12 years. No one ever set boundaries. Early in sobriety I remember wondering what would have happened had some been placed on me. ..While painful and difficult I can't think of a better way of showing just how much you love him. ..It's just an example of a boundary based on well nothing really just an example. Keep something in mind once the boundary has been explained and it has been acknowledged dont deviate. Your explanation was the warning the second change and the "ok just this once!" all rolled into one. As adults we are no different then when we were children. We all or more likely "most" of us push the boundaries to test the waters. ..You know it may come down to him not being at your wedding.  While that would be tragic for you and your Dad I think one day it could end up being amazing for you and your alcoholic father. But the boundary is about you not him. ..Good luck to you and your fianc . Remember there is life after you put down the bottle. Don't lose hope. Go to al-anon if you aren't. Take care of you....
Do it.  Tell him to stay away until he's sober.  ..It took me losing the love of my life to get sober.  She left me and moved across the country to get away and I don't blame her.  ..While I wish I could change everything today I'm grateful she dumped my drunk ass.  I went through absolute hell afterward but it got me on the road to happiness...
My sister wrote a letter to my dad shortly before having kids. She explained that she was not comfortable having her kids around if dad was still drinking. I honestly don't know all the details of that letter (I really need to ask her about it) but that was enough inspiration for my dad to go into detox and never touch a drink again. His sober date is Nov 15th 1999. His sobriety was a huge inspiration for me to get sober myself (12 years ago). So my sisters actions 16 years ago led me into a sober life in a round about way. I highly suggest you say something but do it from a loving point of view.  
Alanon.
