-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/3u968m/my_husband_is_struggling_with_alcoholism_how_do_i/

I've been with him 6 years and I've known about his alcohol issues for a long time (we were young when we met and we were both initially heavy drinkers). He doesn't come home drunk or get mean or anything like that (and actually hasn't been drunk in over a year).  He does  however  feel an urge to drink  and in an effort to stop himself has asked me to hold onto all IDs car keys  etc and keep them in a fingerprinted safe (only I can unlock it). How else do I help him? I can't keep his ID and keys prisoner for forever  and he's asked me to never let him leave the house alone (a lot of places don't ID him because he's obviously not underage). I'm so proud of him for taking this step and asking me to help protect him from himself  and we're talking about rehab but we don't have $21000 to spend for a 10 day stay. Going into debt is not an option in order to help pay either. Any suggestions?..EDIT: Thank you everyone  he's going to start going to AA Meetings next week! He wants me to hang onto the keys and IDs for now to help him initially. In the mean time I introduced him to reddit (I showed him this post)  got him an account and subscribed him to a few subs like this. Hopefully all of it combined will help!  Thank you for the support and advice everyone! 
----------immediate responses--------

See if there is an alanon meeting with his AA meeting or nearby-you may wish to keep your recovery private from him and that is your right. Our situations are all different and you will find help and hope there whether he keeps    drinking finds recovery or goes cold turkey. If you can call the phone number for Alanon closest to you you will get advice relative to your specific situation.
Get him to an AA meeting asap. He will find people that will help because they have recovered as well. You can find help at an al-anon meeting.  aa.org &amp; al-anon.org are good starting points. 
"In our belief any scheme of combating alcoholism which proposes to shield the sick man from temptation is doomed to failure. If the alcoholic tries to shield himself he may succeed for a time but he usually winds up with a bigger explosion than ever. We have tried these methods. These attempts to do the impossible have always failed."..Unless you can somehow relieve his obsession to drink I don't think there's much you can do for him. I can't help but wonder why he is fighting and hasn't surrendered. Is he not being sponsored? Has he not worked the Steps? 
AA.  I HATED THE IDEA FOR YEARS.  Then at my absolute lowest (which your hubby doesn't seem like he's anywhere near) my beloved aunt (25 years sober herself) literally forced me to go.  It was very eye-opening.  ..I don't believe in God so the "higher power" stuff was tough to get past but beyond that it's a great place to learn how to manage your life without alcohol.  Send him alone or with a friend who also has a desire to quit.  Later down the road if he wants you to join that's cool but give him a chance to get it all out without having to filter shit because you're sitting there.  In even the most open and honest relationships there needs to be some independence.  
One of the best things you can do is go to an Alanon meeting. See /r/Alanon. It is a support group for friends and family of alcoholics. Meetings helped me learn about alcoholism enabling boundaries and that I cannot change another person. It felt good to be with people who understood what I was going through. Meetings are almost everywhere. Take care of yourself.
