-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/3zyj5t/feeling_unwelcome_in_aa_lately/

Hi all.  Feel like i have to squeal on myself.  I've been feeling unwelcome at a specific AA group lately.  Part of me knows it's all in my head which is why I'm posting here but when it's in my head it feels like it's authentic and not just happening in my head.  I attend a group that has very strong opinions (referred to in my geographic area as "big book thumpers") about how a person should work the program - exclusively from the big book with a very involved sponsor (which feels to me like enmeshment) and completing all the steps very early in recovery in one sitting (all steps completed in one day) followed by a heavy push for immediate sponsorship of other alcoholics (the end result being people with 2-3 months of sobriety sponsoring multiple people).  All of that "party line" makes me extremely uncomfortable (Like squeamish like the way the guy with the white hair in the movie Contact with jodie foster makes me feel).  I did not get sober that way i've been sober for a little over two years i feel sober and not dry and i find it very intimidating to hear that i got sober the "wrong" way and feel threatened that one day i'll drink again b/c i got sober this "wrong" way.  I know the simplest and most obvious solution is to stop going to this particular meeting.  i keep going b/c my social group that i do most of my fellowshipping outside of AA with belongs to this group.  So in my disordered all or nothing thinking mind the solution is stop going to AA completely.  I do believe AA got me sober and will keep me sober and I need to stop letting this feeling undermine my desire to attend meetings.  Thanks all.  ..Edit - follow up.  Thanks all for the suggestions to try new meetings.  While the area I live in is pretty dense with meetings I've struggled with finding a meeting I feel comfortable at. I think i needed this nudge to really make me see that I need to put more energy into finding a new meeting.   
----------immediate responses--------

Maybe try going to some different meetings?  Do you live in a large enough city to have some choices?..I've found that some meetings work for me and others don't.
I would try another meeting this one sounds toxic.
I found women's meetings particularly interesting and helpful. There's an old saying:..&gt; Don't throw out the baby with the bathwater!..It's not necessary to believe everything we hear at a meeting. Hang on to your own truth...Come see us at /r/stopdrinking. 
I'll share what I've heard others say regarding this topic:..Not everything you witness in AA is 'AA'. As a group comprised of people from all walks of life you may find that there are some who are push their dogma as AA. Others may guilt people into believing they aren't living up to the standard of a specific group when that standard isn't necessarily represented or endorsed by AA as a whole...These things will almost certainly affect a person's desire to go to meetings. I would suggest finding other meetings to attend and speaking to some closer sober friends who might understand the issue. You might just find that the people you fellowship with may feel the same way.
Sounds like a great chance to check out some other meetings.  There's different ways to work the program. I have a sponsor. I think it's a good way to work the program. And it's nowhere in the big book. So I think AAs should agree there can be room for growth beyond what's in the book. We aren't just doing this "for the wives" anymore. 
Find another group. This one dangerous..
Hello u/saddestgirlofalltime. I will send you an invite to r/dinosaursinrecovery.  It's a sub for people with at least one year of recovery. I bet you will get some great feedback about this there too (in addition to what you've gotten here). 
Oh man I hear you on this one!! Here's what I do: ignore and repeat we all find our own path of enlightenment. If you had a program that wasn't working and you were relapsing again and again ( describes me for 15 years) I'd post differently ..If you have the luxury hit different meetings that adhere to the program but are more in line with your experience. 
you did not get sober the wrong way - I  have changed meetings to avoid the ultra orthodox - and have found my tribe again.
I've been to meetings like this one in more than one city - they exist as a subculture in many AA circles...Absolutely nothing prevents AA members from voicing their opinions and seeking like-minded others to validate them.  But by the same token nothing in AA prevents *ME* from voicing *MY* opinions and it is not necessary that I find a venue in which the majority in attendance agree with me...There have been times when I have felt compelled to speak my mind and my heart when I felt that the prevailing opinion in an AA meeting tended towards an exclusionary message whether that message was one of intolerance or whether that message was one of smug self-importance...What I believe is undermining your desire to attend meetings is fear - a fear that your sobriety won't be considered 'good enough' by the people who use a methodology you disagree with.  It is very important I think to give voice to that fear by speaking out *at that meeting* when the viewpoints of those people cross the line from advocating for a singular method of getting sober to a dismissive attitude towards people who don't use those methods...You might be the only Big Book someone every sees - and strangely enough that can even be in a room full of 'Big Book thumpers.'  Somebody attending that meeting may desperately need to hear the message of love and tolerance that you share especially when they are surrounded by its' opposite...Also remember that people who go for this sort of exclusionary message - that there is only one true path one true source of information and that only adherence to the narrowest of interpretations will keep you on the right side - exist in all societies  not just AA.  It works for some.  But for those of us for whom it does not it is very important that we do not allow ourselves to be intimidated or outshouted...Speak up.  Speak from your heart exactly how you feel and explain from your conscience what you think is important for you to know about your own recovery.  You have as much right to your opinions as they do.  AA is not a tyranny of the majority.  It is supposed to be guided by "one ultimate authority a loving God as he may express himself in our group conscience."   ..And contrary to your fears it may be that the people who hear you will respect you more for speaking your beliefs than they would for holding back and saying nothing.
**cult alert**..You are probably experiencing what I believe is a cult not necessarily on purpose but because cults fill a deep need of some folks....What you can do? Carry the message and stand up for yourself and moderate the hardliners so that they don't kill someone...Something like this "The way I got sober was (whatever it was) and that isn't what I'm hearing is necessary and I really hope that love and tolerance is our code because I would not like it if someone like me came along to this group was scared off and didn't get the chance to experience sobriety and recovery like I'm so blessed to have received it. Thanks for allowing me to share."..Be solid...There is a fella at my group that seems exceedingly critical of Alcoholics Anonymous when he shares but I've become protective of him because he's sober G0d love him and his opinion is just as worthwhile as mine and he found an understanding of everything in the final analysis and I'm not qualified to say that his way is wrong....No one is qualified to say that your road to recovery is wrong....Good luck.
I wouldn't expect the people in that group to stop saying what they believe is true and start saying what you believe is true just because you showed up. ..I attend a meeting that introduces themselves in a rote way. I don't. They give a standing ovation to every speaker. I remain seated every time. They do the steps in a day it took me years to just locate those I owed amends to and my 4th wasn't written on a postage stamp...We do AA differently and a lot of them are active and caring members that I like a lot. Through life I've liked many who've done and said what I consider to be silly stuff. I'm not going to suddenly stop that because it's coming from AA members...Stay and enjoy the show be true to yourself and see how it plays out.
I once went to a meeting in a small town where I was thinking of moving and I thought I heard everyone in the meeting incorporate a lot of Big Book and Bible thumping I felt left out and alienated. Later I did move to that town and attended that meeting regularly. I found that like many meetings the people there were quite diverse and disagreed with each other about a lot of those elements. What I heard the first time was not a group consensus but my feeling as an outsider creating one in my head...That said I do know of groups that really do have the quality you describe. Some are open to others but some seem fairly dominated by this closed-minded singular interpretation of AA. I believe it comes from our natural tendency to try to do more and be better at something that really doesn't work that way...Most importantly: I would find some other groups. You may find one where you really click I have found some groups that were very important to me at different times. But the flip side is that even if you don't you can stay sober going to groups that don't have a strong social aspect...There is a point when a group becomes no longer AA. If the requirement for membership in that group seems to be more than a desire to stop drinking then it has evolved into something else I believe. But I don't think I have the ability to discern that line clearly.
How can you work a program "exclusively" from the big book but also need a sponsor? Did I miss the sponsorship chapter?
