-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/40ftsp/i_dont_know_if_im_an_alcoholic/

Ok so I'm using my cell phone and just had a very long post started and my app crashed!! So here it goes again!..Ok so I'm aware that there are multiple different types of alcoholics I'm sure I fall into the social binge drinking category somewhere. I often go two or three weeks without a drink and unless its subconsciously I don't crave alcohol during those times. So the thing is when I do drink I sometimes drink to the point of being hungover for what seems like a week (now that I'm typing this and reading it at the same time it kinda seems obvious that I at least have some issues with drinking LoL!). During that week of being hungover I very often tell myself and my wife the classic "I'm never going to drink again!!" quote to which I get the classic response from my wife "I'll believe it when I see it!". The thing is that I truly do mean it. I go a couple of weeks not drinking (I do abstain from drinking for other reasons other than being hungover just FYI)  feel a lot better (hangover long gone) and my buddies call me up and are ready to hit the town.... cycle repeats! I somehow forget how awful I felt the last time I did this to myself and do it all over again...I have a couple of best buddies of 15 or 20 years that are my accomplices in crime (drinking.... and other activities LoL!). They don't struggle with the guilt of their drinking habits the way I do they don't believe they have a problem or me for that matter. They tell me that I shouldn't be so hard on myself etc etc etc. Now I know that the people you choose to associate with sometimes can be the problem but these are the guys I grew up with. ..I'm sure there is more background that I'm leaving out. I'll say again that now that I've typed this out there is obviously an issue is it alcoholism? I don't know. Is it possible to just be so hard on yourself with guilt that you feel like your an alcoholic even though your not?..Thank for the advice folks!   ..Never been in trouble for drinking or anything like that btw. 
----------immediate responses--------

I'm kind of getting the idea that alcoholism is kind of subjective from reading more and more posts in this sub. If I feel I have a problem then I most likely do?? Is that a correct analysis?? 
The questions posed in the Big Book for Step 1 are:..- When drinking can you always control the amount you drink?..- Given a valid reason to stop  can you stop drinking completely?..If you can't control the amount you drink when you do drink and if you can't stop drinking entirely even with a good reason to do so you're probably an alcoholic.
That may not be the right question. Do you want to stop drinking? Do you think drinking is adversely affecting your life to the point where you want to change? I spent my first two years in AA worrying about whether I was really an alcoholic (even though I had been ordered into rehab). My life was getting a lot better as a result of not drinking but part of me thought I didn't really deserve it. One of the issues I had was similar I didn't have what I thought of as cravings--not like I did for say cigarettes. But I did have a much more subtle complex of justifications and behaviors that all led to drinking. But the point was that I didn't need to answer that question because I did have a desire to stop drinking. (over time the answer became a lot clearer by the way).
[Try this quiz.](http://www.aa.org/pages/en_US/is-aa-for-you-twelve-questions-only-you-can-answer) It's anonymous so answer honestly. It should help clarify your thinking about your drinking...Of course you don't have to be an alcoholic for alcohol to cause you problems. If it causes you problems then don't drink it.
If you truly want to quit drinking and you can not ...
ummm..........dude if you want to drink then drink...If you want to not drink and have a desire to stop drinking then do that....When I drink I get thirsty--that's what alcoholism looks like to me--because that happens all sorts of much worse things happen.....When I was young I just quit for three years then when I was 11 years older I stopped for six years...What happened was it got worse.....Then after four years of drinking I sought help after some bad drama......So like drinking? Drink. Don't like drinking? Don't.....Have a problem with staying stopped? Get help.
A friend rang the AA helpline here in the UK and said: "I think I might be an alcoholic.".."My dear" said the posh-sounding lady manning the line "if you think you might be you almost certainly are. Otherwise the question would simply not arise."..You'll find out for sure by going to meetings and studying (not just reading *studying*) the book. Maybe you are maybe you're not -- your call -- but at least you'll know. Good luck.
