-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/44xhg5/considering_attending_my_first_meeting/

There is an AA meeting at noon that I want to attend but I'm very nervous. Do I have anything to worry about? Should I wait until I feel more comfortable with it? I'm struggling and I'm not sure what to do. 
----------immediate responses--------

If you are struggling the best place you can be is a meeting. It might be a little uncomfortable at first. People will probably talk to you and ask you some questions. They are just eager to try and help you stay sober. Everything that made me better and helped me recover from alcoholism was something that I was uncomfortable with at first. But you have nothing to fear other than people being nice to you.
I felt really uncomfortable walking into my first few meetings. That was five years ago last week. Before that if I made it to lunch without a drink it was a good day. How about just trying something new? Try to take comfort in the idea that everyone in that room was once in a similar position that you are in right now.  You are not alone in fact quite the opposite.
Nothing to fear about going to a meeting.  It is a little nerve-wracking at first but you'll see it's nothing to worry about.  Everyone there have but one purpose - to stop drinking and to help others to stop drinking.  ..You don't have to drink the kool-aid at your first meeting - if this isn't your cup of tea try another one.  Meetings can be way different from each other. And like Cornbrosia said - If you are struggling the best place you can be is a meeting.   I guarantee you will meet people that are (or have been) in your situation
Everyone is nervous walking through that door and into the room.
I went to the noon meeting and everyone was very kind and welcoming. They read from the book so I wasn't able to share or hear anyone else share but I plan on going back. 
You don't have to be nervous. We are all there for the same reason. And honestly you don't have to share at the meeting. In fact you shouldn't. Take what you need and leave the rest...If someone should talk to you after the meeting please engage. You are in a safe place.
What are you afraid of?
Get your ass to a meeting.  People will be kind to you.
Glad you tried one out. Maybe check out an evening meeting too.
I was exactly like that at my first meeting. We all are it's only natural. One thing I learned -- it's a safe place to be scared because we've all been there we all get it. Keep coming. 
