-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/44zt2z/am_i_crazy/

First off let me say that I am beyond grateful for AA. The program has saved my life no doubt about it. I love my sponsor. But lately I've been feeling apathetic towards meetings and such as a whole. Maybe it's my location but there's a certain level of clique-iness that I'm having trouble working around..    I have been in the program for almost three years sober for almost two and a half. Most people in the program are lovely but maybe....insincere? I have people telling me they love me after meeting me twice but they can't get my name right. My facebook feed is littered with people in the program for one hanging out and socializing and I haven't found my crowd. People will say "Oh we need to hang out." "Oh I'll call you." And they never call. .    For my part I am shy and reserved but friendly. I have a hard time opening up and speaking at meetings because of my inner isolationist. Another reason I don't share much is because when I was first getting sober (struggling) there was one woman (who can't share at a meeting without mentioning how young she was when she got sober) who acting appalled and disgusted that I had relapsed..    I'm sorry if I seem ungracious I've just been dreading meetings and am sick of feeling like the fifth wheel. I hate feeling this way about such a great program. Has anyone else ever felt this way? And how did you overcome it?
----------immediate responses--------

I'm so sorry that you're feeling this way.  In my early months of AA I had similar experiences.  One time I finally got fed up and vented to an "old timer" after the meeting.  He said "we are all a bunch of sick fucks that come from so many different walks of life.  This isn't a debutant ball. We are all trying to survive.  We all arrive on an even playing field to these meetings.  Don't be offended but use the time in the meetings for yourself and to reach out to others that need YOU!"   ..You know what?  He was right!  
I've found that shopping around for the right meetings where I felt *good* when I went was what I had to do. I've been where you are! Once I found "my" meetings I moved and now I have one meeting place that's local and it's not a good fit. The rest (that I *loved*) are about an hour away now. I make the trip at least once a week to hit those meetings. The travel is worth it for my well-being...I still go the local one to offer support to others. I've been told that a meeting is what you make it and if you don't like your meeting change it by participating more. It's difficult sometimes but I still try to do my best in that area. I have an inner isolationist as well. She'd be really happy if I sat and listened :) ..The people who say "we need to hang out" and then they never call--call *them* if you want to do something with them. See what happens :)
I would look for other meetings as well. The two groups I frequent are not 24-hour clubs so there is not as much "hanging out" besides before and after a meeting. And I prefer that to be honest. I heard someone share once that the AA program is not for when you're sitting in a meeting or hanging around in the meeting hall it's for out in the real world with our jobs family and other commitments/people. If someone is judging you for a relapse that is their own sickness. Don't let their sickness make you sick as well!
So I had a similar experience. I'm not sure how long you have got but here is what I did to get over this. When i went to a new meeting I state "I am new to this meeting and would like to exchange numbers with people". That will automatically get at least one or two people to approach you. Reach out to everyone who gives you their number. They are looking for connection too. I text the people on my list once every couple of days. Now I have a handful of people who I would actually call my friends. People who I go out to dinners with and have tea at a local coffee shop. People who I can also talk to about other issues and not just AA. You have to put yourself out there in a group of people who have never felt connection outside of the group. If that is what you want then you need to lead. That one sentence has changed my life. 
[deleted]
Individually we are sick collectively we are powerful. My journey to connectedness with other alcoholics is ongoing after many years of sobriety. Some are sicker than others. I think that for me when I am uncomfortable with others in the program it helps to check my assumptions and expectations before judging others. Also if you are an introvert hanging out with extroverts is challenging. My closest friends in AA are other introverts. Also if I can't find at least 1 person I can connect with and identify with at a meeting I don't go there. That includes identifying with newcomers.
This has happened to me a number of times over the years. Sometimes I just get stale and critical other times it's that I'm in a place where I don't connect socially to people. (I've moved around a bit). The truth is that sometimes in AA you totally connect with a crowd and it fills your social emotional intellectual needs. But other times and places it doesn't. But it still works with the primary purpose thing. .It's also true that we go through flat spots as we grow and everything around us starts to look off. I have found that changing meetings or doing something new spiritually can help get me out of a rut. .Also currently I'm going to meetings and re-reading the material in a language that I'm just now learning. So that makes everything fresh again.
18 months sober here - I started getting annoyed at my home group around the 6-month mark. Found myself silently motherfucking people during open share all the while trying to figure out where all of that was coming from. Through a series of circumstances I was appointed chairperson of the group's commitment at a local detox center. Working outside of the meeting with some of the very same folks that were annoying me was an absolute game changer. ..TL;DR. Try service work. 
