-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/4bhadj/one_week_sober_and_hopefully_many_years_more_to/

Yesterday was a hard day.  My grandfather passed away and I was struggling.  So I decided it was a pretty good time to go out and try an AA meeting.  It was open discussion so I just sat and listened.  I did get a 24hour chip.  I look forward to going back as the people there really understand and the discussion was very enlightening.  It's nice to know I'm not alone.
----------immediate responses--------

First AA meeting I went to I thought I'd found my tribe -- people who actually understood. I'd long forgotten how to hope but I came away from that meeting with just a spark a glimmer of hope. That was 15 sober years ago. Life happens -- there are still bereavements heartbreaks all the stuff -- but sober I can deal with it instead of crawling into a bottle. Good luck and welcome to the fellowship.
Kudos for one week! I'm sorry about the loss of your grandfather. You made a wise decision to go to a meeting and I hope you try others. Give /r/stopdrinking a look-see.
Yep - friends you never knew you had. Worked for me. .
Congrats!
&gt;It's nice to know I'm not alone...This was my overwhelming feeling when I started going to AA meetings. Before I tried one I was sure it wasn't for me. Then I went to one and realized it's *exactly* for me..
Welcome and congrats on the week!
Welcome! You're definitely not alone. You can online meetings as well. Using the app Fuze. I know they have live meetings every Tuesday and Thursday late. (10:30pm Chicago time). .I'm happy for you. I'm 10 months in and there are some shitty days ahead I won't lie to you. Even if AA doesn't work for you keep at the sobriety thing. Every one has their own program and AA is not for everyone. Good luck man! It's a crazy ride. Hit me up if you need anything ok?
Keep coming back!  Having a week means that there's someone out there with less than a week that you can carry the message to.  Definitely get a copy of the big book a sponsor and start working the steps.  You'll be amazed before you're halfway through as to where this program can take you. 
Keep it up! It's worth it and so are you! 
