-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/4cnfqe/i_guess_im_lucky/

I'm not lucky. But I have only myself to blame for what's going on. I have no inclination to drink. It's in fact the last thing I want to do. But I'm waiting to see what I'll be charged with. In a sense the drink isn't what'll kill me. It's the anxiety of not knowing what comes next. ..I'm a grad student so waiting is taking its toll on my concentration. I was sober for about two years starting in 2013 but I went back out and like an old friend from the program told me without knowing it was going to be applicable to me it only gets worse whereas staying in means things only get better...I've been back in meetings since last week. I'm shopping around for a new home group and will eventually seek a sponsor once I find the right fit. ..For those of you who are new to the program I can only say be strong. Take that with a grain of salt because I've been in out and back again but there are so many things you learn in the program that repair that part of you that's left wrecked. I can regret feel sorry for myself and complain all day about my situation but the root of AA is that there's always hope. You learn that half measures avail us nothing and when standing at the turning point giving yourself over to care of God or however you understand your higher power is the way to figure out what's next and to receive the  strength to carry out that plan...So as a newcomer to this sub for all those who are struggling out there as I have and am much love. Be strong. Don't give into temptation. Don't give into the darker aspects of yourself that let you believe it's easier when you just take the first drink. ..I'm off to a meeting. 
----------immediate responses--------

Thanks for posting.                    .One day at a time...
Just got back from a meeting followed by a trip to the frozen yogurt place to celebrate 90 days with a friend...Life is good...You ARE lucky.  You made it back.  Thanks for posting.
Thanks for posting. I wish you another 24.
[deleted]
That's a great message really helpful for anyone who's struggling. Thanks. I often say I only ever got one thing from my first few AA meetings and that was hope -- but that's ok because without hope there is nothing while with hope anything is possible. I'd long forgotten how to hope and AA gave hope back to me. 
