-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/4g08ur/im_4_days_sober_but_struggling_how_did_you/

I've done 5 jigsaws and have blisters on my hands from writing. What the hell do sober people do with their time?
----------immediate responses--------

Go to lots of meetings and exercise/work...I was lucky to have a labor job when I was newly sober. I was mixing concrete hauling block/lumber etc and going to meetings every night. I didn't have time to be bored and was dead tired every night...Most of us spent several hours a day drinking/drugging. No reason you can't go to a few meetings a day if you have the free time.
It took me a while to find myself and discover things I enjoyed to fill my time. It will come! But my go-to things for boredom have been meetings reading walking podcasts Netflix. Meetings are great because you end up finding people to hang out with that know about a lot of different sober events and things to do.
Take it one hour at a time. Call people you have met in the meetings and talk to them. Let them know how you are doing. Go to as many meetings in a day as you need. Sometimes that might be 1 meeting a day. Sometimes that might be 2. The best advice I have though is just don't drink today.
Kudos for four days!               .I kept busy with taking care of my children work and recovery. I read everything I could find on alcoholism. I got a therapist and went to lots of AA meetings. I got a sponsor and worked the steps. I walked. Thanks for your post. Check out also /r/stopdrinking.
I started taking up another hobby. I started playing golf and going to the gym. The gym has definitely been a life saver for me and it has totally taken my mind off alcohol and other drugs. It's worth it and so are you! Always remember your a person worthy of love and respect! 
Distractions. Hobbies. More meetings. The gym. If you are a real alcoholic these will not replace alcohol and you will likely relapse. ..Get busy. Move your feet. Take action. In the program of AA. ..Meetings coffee and chit chat is Fellowship. .Sponsorship big book 12 steps higher power that is the Program... 
In early days I parked myself in meetings and didn't leave till they locked up for the day eventually I found something I liked doing and threw myself into it. But by way of recommendations I'd say go to meeting for the social aspect feeling accepted helps a lot
/r/origami
Meetings meetings and more meetings - morning noon and night..When I eventually I got a job I upped my meetings some more..When I got my driving licence back that's when my meeting attendance really took off..Now my wife is talking to me again and I'm allowed to see my kids again I spend pretty much all my spare time in meetings  
There have been so many great answers. ..Congrats on your start! My first weeks were weird. Like everyone typed I went to as many meetings as I could did things around the house and around my meeting house read took up a hobby or two (love me some /r/origami - good tip /u/GrumpyMcGrumperton ) and basically started learning how to live a sober life...That is one of the early gifts that sobriety brought me more time in each day. I had no idea how many hours were in the day. When I was drinking and using it seemed like I was always rushing around trying to get caught up. When I started being sober and clean I found I had earned a huge reward. I had all this extra time in the day. ..Anyway congrats again!!! 
First 6 months stay away from social media...I also stayed at a house with four other guys who had more recovery time. So I would suggest meetings and getting to know others.
I did a lot of hiking working out meetings. And then a lot of TV and locking myself in my room. 
If you have the free time go to meetings. Call other alcoholics.  We don't do this alone.  We can't. ..Meetings.  Find a sponsor.  Work the steps.  I could not have lasted and didn't many times more than 10 days with the mind I was working with.  I needed to find the same ease and comfort that alcohol provided me and I found that and more in the Steps...And to answer your last question eventually we just start living life.  If I'm doing this right I have a big full life and that takes up a lot of my time.  Today I have that life.
If you read the paragraphs to the far right of this page under the header Welcome to AA. It states the primary purpose of this site is to carry the message. I'm not a Reddit or AA moderator but I do challenge people to at least contemplate what that message is. ..I assure you more meetings or distractions is not the message of the BB or Traditions. ..If your trying to find ways to avoid thinking/drinking/being in proximity of alcohol you might be misinformed. 
Meetings classes at the gym meditation classes take walks play loud music (so you can't hear yourself think!)..Tell your friends and family you're going through recovery so they can help you keep busy!
In the long-term not drinking has given me more time to put into my business to read to exercise to appreciate my family and friends. Those aren't distractions though; those are the things life is about. ..When I feel tempted to drink I think about why I quit about all the pain I've caused myself and the people I love with my illness...Then I think about all the wonderful people in my home group how any number of them is only a phone call away if I need to talk. Go to meetings early and leave late. There's always the meeting before the meeting right? Just the hanging out and shooting the breeze. Do that; make friends. My AA friends are a big part of how I've made it as far as I have. ..One day at a time and when one day seems too long go an hour at a time. I promise it gets better and you're worth it. ..EDIT: I forgot to congratulate you on four days! 
Hello..It's been 3 days since your post.  Did you make a week?
Try this playlist.  It's full of great recovery and you might recognize some of the speakers.  https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLCoNWFgxjiSWnT3G6ntb_36ed9Wv0Nr--
