-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/4hjz64/i_feel_crazy_in_early_sobriety_is_this_normal/

I was driving to the barber and it was closed someone cut me off as I was driving out the parking lot. I felt like drinking stressed anxious and angry . I feel restless all day. I have 4 days of sobriety and have been drinking heavily on and off for three months after a relapse. I can't sleep and angry. Is this normal feelings in early sobrIety?
----------immediate responses--------

Absolutely. Honestly I would say any feeling is normal early in sobriety. I had some completely new feelings that I couldn't even identify! It gets better with time. It took me about 3 months until I actually started to feel like my emotions stabilized to a workable level.
Yes. For me the fog didn't clear for the first 90 days. And my anger and wild emotions didn't subside for another year. Just don't drink no matter what.
Absolutely normal. When I felt like you do I was in the safe harbor of rehab. Go to a meeting!
Definitely normal! This is why it was so important for me to occupy my time with healthy activities in the first few months - like so occupied I didn't have time to make a detour and go get booze. A meeting a day fellowship before and after work out (gently if you're physically still shaky) read call people in the program do some cooking projects: anything to keep myself busy to combat the restlessness. Doing step work also helps - it's intended to! :)
I have 18 months of sobriety.  I work a program help my sponsees work a program and this type of shit still happens to me.  In other words the drinking problem wasn't the main problem
Thanks guys I am headed to a meeting and trying to start exercising.
Yes. This is a roller coaster. It's good to talk to someone a sponsor or just another AA'er. It's wise to make sure you're well fed and well rested. Exercise can help. Candy escpecially dark chocolate can help. A good orgasm can help...The next stage for me was feeling slightly better followed by suddenly feeling completely awesome. (What many refer to as the "pink cloud".) ..Hold on it gets better. 
Hiya. Totally normal. The thing is that now we really feel life: the good the bad and the funky. There is that goofy old saying SOBER means "Son Of a B**ch Everything's Real." It may be goofy but it is so true...For the anger there is nothing in the books or the programs that say we cannot be human. But after you get some time under your belt we get to learn how to handle these things without them taking over our lives. I used to let traffic issues bother me for days. Really. Now I get p*ssed off and I only stay that way for a little while. Usually. *grins*..As for sleep sorry. But that sucks. And I am so glad I don't have to go through that again. Get yourself some great long books that are low stress. Read all night if you have to. Exercise and eat well and drink plenty of fluids. Sleep is a natural thing and we ruined sleep with all of our chemicals. Reread Lord of the Rings or Song of Ice and Fire or Dickens or anything long and involved. It will keep you mind out of itself...Congrats on making it through another day!!!!. .
Very normal 
Yes...Lucky for me my first home group has a commitment in carrying the message to the locked psychiatric unit at our local hospital and I did that as much as I possibly could do and you know what? I related to those nuts.
We get crazy then we drink. Not we drink then get crazy. ..What are you doing to recover from being crazy??..I do step work prayer help others write inventory. Daily. I have been returned to sanity. My drinking was merely a symptom. 
are you working the steps?  these bedevilments until completion of working the steps and becoming recovered.  sure life is still tough but what you are describing sounds like a dry drunk... untreated alcoholism.....from page 52 BB..*We were having trouble with personal relationships we couldn't control our emo- tional natures we were a prey to misery and depres- sion we couldn't make a living we had a feeling of uselessness we were full of fear we were unhappy we couldn't seem to be of real help to other people *
"The best thing about getting sober is you get your feelings back. The worse thing about getting sober is you get your feelings back". I couldn't sleep for weeks after I stopped drinking - my head was like a washing machine on spin cycle but it did ease off after some time...So yes it's normal and it's also normal for people who don't learn to deal with all those feelings to go back to drinking again. Luckily AA's 12 step program is designed to help with the day to day stresses and anxiety that we all start to feel again once we get sober - and how to deal with them without drinking. The payoff of course is that you also get to experience all the good feelings in life without having to take a drink...The worse thing about getting sober is you get your feelings back. The best thing about getting sober is you get your feelings back..
