-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/4igcvt/room_for_atheists_in_aa/

Hey everyone. I'm new to this I know I have a drinking problem and I think having a support community will make it easier to finally kick. However I'm an atheist. I have nothing against religion but I don't believe in any gods nor do I have any interest in believing in any god. I find that a lot of AA is based in faith in a god and I can't be the only person who struggles with this. How have other atheists (or agnostics etc) dealt with this? I'm very serious about quitting alcohol but I don't subscribe to a religion. Hope I can get some help.
----------immediate responses--------

Hi! I'm a sober alcoholic atheist too I have been for over 11 years now. In fact I realized my atheism while learning to live sober and attending AA meetings. In my experience there is plenty of room for atheists in AA and the wider recovery community. I've been to some very religious meetings I've been to meetings where religion isn't mentioned I've been to agnostic meetings. In all of them the primary focus was always sobriety. ..Here are some resources:../r/AtheistTwelveSteppers/..www.weagnostics.com..www.agnosticaanyc.org (which includes a worldwide list of agnostic aa meetings)..Some other tips and tricks:..In my experience these meetings are often less religious:..+ gay-friendly meetings.+ meetings held in non-denominational spaces (YMCAs hospitals community centers).+ Theme meetings like young people's meetings...Some people are very preachy and insistent on prayer and the god of their understanding. I find it best to shrug this off. You've probably already experienced the religious person who can't understand atheism they exist in recovery as well. It is important to remember that no one person speaks for AA and no one person has all the answers. It is an intentionally decentralized and leaderless group for good reason. 
I'm a real newb but at the last meeting a guy said he was atheist and he said to him the "higher power" was the people in AA. This is sort of in alignment with Carl Jung's "collective conscious" in that what many may perceive as "God" is the collective conscious of the people; the human race. ..AA *does* feel like a church to me but it's a church with ONE purpose: to stop drinking and to help each other stop drinking. So far the Lord's prayer has been said at the end of the meetings I've been to while all holding hands but while I'm not a Christian I don't let that bug me - you don't have to say it yourself if you don't want to and frankly I find it a lot less offensive than the Pledge Of Allegiance and we all grew up saying that thing. ..There is so much more than just getting together drinking the ever-present coffee and telling "war stories" about being drunk and recovering. There's a whole system. It's so much more than I thought it would be. And the faith is not in "god" it's in a "higher power" however you imagine it - you will find a sponsor and you will have people you can talk to any time that is a pretty "higher power" in our atomized society. 
When step 2 refers to a higher power as it says in the 12 and 12 that is a power greater than ones self. It says you can even make AA your higher power after all we are a group powerful than one that has solved the drink problem. 
It helped me to flip it around.  Is there NO power greater than myself?  Am I more powerful than all else?  My answer was "No".  If there IS a power greater than myself could it be possible that such higher power may relieve my alcoholism?  If I am open to this possibility I believe I have more than adequately fulfilled the spiritual requirement to start the AA program and would encourage any like-minded sufferer to give it a sincere try since there is no commitment and no downside...On the other hand if I am omnipotent and convinced nothing else can solve my problem with alcohol then I should probably just go ahead and stop drinking myself.  Best wishes to you on your journey of seeking.  Grateful to be here.
I actually walked into (well stumbled) an AA meeting and stated "I'm an atheist and I hate God."  I was I suppose hoping to cause a firestorm of controversy.  ..The response I got instead was "So you're busy hating something that you don't believe exists?"  After some spluttered protests on my part I realized that I was doing exactly that.  What a waste of energy...I count myself an AA member in good standing these days and while not exactly an atheist I am strongly agnostic...And it works for me.
I'm an Atheist and 3 years in the program.  ...God is a placeholder for want of a better term.  Many use Higher Power.  Which sounds a lot more mysterious than it is. ...I still don't believe in God in the Christian/Judaea sense but I'm sober and happy.  And that's all that matters.  ...Don't overthink it.  Follow the folks that have been where you are and have come out the other side.  
Yes AA is a spiritually based program.  I know many long term sober atheists though.  Many newbies come in with no religious affiliation or as ardent atheists.  If you're respectful and pleasant to those AA people who do believe in God and keep an open mind to people's experiences you'll be free to believe as you wish.
My experience is that to be accepted as an atheist you'll need to be a lot kinder to believers than believers will be to you.   ..I'm tolerated in my group because I'm relatively discreet about my beliefs but around here there is no shortage of group members who say things like "My Higher Power whom I choose to call Jesus."
Curious have you read the Chapter - We Agnostics?..Either way I did not start with a belief in a Higher Power.  But i did Come To Believe thru rigorous work in the 12 Steps. I had the psychic transformation and came to believe that "Something" was allowing this to happen. A "God" of my understanding nobody elses. I assure you AA is not a religion.   ..I wish you luck!
I had something of a spiritual awakening when I stopped drinking.  It wouldn't be enough to convince someone else but it's enough for me.  Anyway now I have an imaginary friend I call God. I ask Him for courage and He helps me. I ask for guidance and I generally get a good idea what I should do. Whether it's my subconscious or the Supreme Creator of the Universe I don't really know.  I don't think it matters much.  At least my imaginary friend doesn't seem to care.
I'll have 3 years sober in AA next week. I don't just casually attend meetings either. I have a sponsor sponsees and I work the steps. I'm also extremely involved in service at the local district and area levels. AA is a massive part of my life. I'm an atheist too. ..Check out this post for some food insights by other atheists in AA. ..https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/4gtjiw/atheists_of_aa_what_is_your_higher_power/.
At some point in your association with AA you'll need to come up with something that will serve as a power greater than yourself. At your own speed not right away. Your conception something that works for you...You need not share what it is with anyone. Truth is others will be no more interested in hearing the specifics of what you believe or don't believe than you are interested in hearing theirs...You may have to occasionally tolerate those who mistakenly believe others need to hear the specifics of what they believe or their list of things they don't believe but you need not make the same error.
[deleted]
I think the issue is is that people equate God with religion...Obviously it has a very Christian-esque method of delivery - the capitalisation "He" "Him" as rendered in the text of the steps and traditions...I'm not in AA - one might say I am a friend of Bill W's wife lol - but I've spend a fair amount of time in open AA meetings and conventions and around AA people and what they tell me that's kinda understandable considering the social mores of the times...What I find it best is that it is simply one way to express the concept. It isn't exclusive rather is inclusive and deliberately open to one's own interpretation...I've seen AA members reconcile "God" as the Christian God. I've seen them recognise it in nature the power of creation in the beauty of the world outside addiction...I had one awsome member who was Aboriginal find it in the Dreaming the mythology of his people. Becoming sober allowed him to become a beacon for his community...Edit: http://www.aa.org/assets/en_US/en_bigbook_chapt4.pdf &lt;-- found that...As an athiest of course you are not going to adopt a religious Higher Power. Nothing wrong with that. But as they say cunning baffling and powerful - once you realise that an answer even if not fully coherent - is available if you look beyond yourself sobriety can be achieved. I think this is what the second step is about. On your own - no chance. Find a concept of beyond in whatever form it takes and you are ready to accept sobriety.
I was atheist/agnostic before I found the 12 Steps and now I have a pretty solid believe in some kind of Higher Power.  I would highly recommend reading Bill's Story and We Agnostics in the book Alcoholics Anonymous.  Bill W is one of the co-authors of the Big Book really didn't even like the work God and preferred the term "spirit of the universe."  I am sure that if you honestly want to work the 12 Steps that is won't be hard for you.  The hoop is so wide that most anyone can jump through it.  All that is required it a mere willingness to believe that there could possibly be something bigger than me at work in my life...The third talks about turning my life and will over to HP but I read that as making a firm decision to work steps 4-12.  I have found that through doing the work rapidly (like the 12 steps instruct) I have been able to recover from my addiction and strengthen my faith in my HP.
As an atheist I found it more beneficial to read the big book rather than the steps on the Wall. Particularly p62. Still makes me cringe a little when I hear folks saying that in Step 3 they are "handing it all over to God" whereas the big book says that step 3 is simply a decision to "quit playing God" - now that is a direction I can both understand and follow on a daily basis. ..AA works for people who believe in God AA works for people who don't believe in God the only people AA doesn't work for is people who think that they are God.
