-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/4j8i79/6_days_sober/

I don't have any recent alcoholic horror stories.  My "rock bottom" was fairly anti-climactic but rock bottom is whenever you decide to quit digging...I am a 30 year old stay at home mom of two tots; educated high functioning sneaky and sly.  I was going through 5-6 bottles of wine per week which is too much for me (5'5 105 lbs).  ..I didn't drink and drive I'm not an angry drunk.  I have gotten a bit too silly and chatty (and perhaps a bit shit-talky at times) and embarrassed myself at a neighbor's BBQ or dinner party but nothing classically indicitive of alcoholism...I'm not even sure I'm an alcoholic. I'm not committed to giving up wine forever but right now I am reaching for a substance to avoid dealing with my stress.  Stress is hard.  Substances are easy.  And as long as I'm doing that I'm not using the necessary coping skills I will need to teach my kids.  I realized during my last hangover that I myself don't have these coping skills yet.  I have a lot of work to do...I'm abstaining from alcohol until I have successfully developed and utilized the tools we need to get through life when life is raining shit upon us.  I don't have an end date.  I may never pick up another drink.  All I know now is I'm not drinking because I abuse substances to avoid stressful situations...6 days sober and I already feel much better.  I had a few triggers this week:.1. Disagreement with my husband.2. Watching people sip wine on TV.3. While Cooking.4. Money problems..I managed to avoid the drink each time so far.  There is a nearly empty bottle of my favorite Sauvignon Blanc in the fridge and it brings me comfort to know it is there and that I don't want it...I had kept my excessive drinking me a secret from my husband- who occasionally drinks but has never been drunk smoked a cigarette gotten a tattoo (a very straight edges in-control type of guy) who does not understand addiction (but was with me through an addiction to marijuana when we met and stood by me while I struggled to give t up.In order to be with him).  I was afraid he would lose respect for me. I was afraid he would worry about me on top of the copious amount of stress he is already under...Last night I came clean to him and admitted that I had been secretly drinking and hiding the evidence.  He was loving and kind.  ..It's our secrets that keep us sick.
----------immediate responses--------

"It's our secrets that keep us sick."..Yup!..And I wish you continued health and happiness.
what else have you been doing in secret?..we are listening.
You may find /r/stopdrinking helpful. Check it out!
Welcome. You say you're not sure you are an alcoholic. That's okay. Staying sober definitely has its advantages for the problem drinker. You can also try going to an AA meeting for support if you want it. 
[removed]
Your area AA should have a 24/7 number you can call also really make some meetings they're very nice. The sort of mental image of AA that the general public including me who haven't been to a meeting does not make it sound like a lot of fun but meetings are great. ..Tonight I went to a meeting where we read around the circle one paragraph per person then the next person would read the next in Step 4 in the 12 Steps 12 Traditions book. It's all about self-examination. ..I have long held that I didn't start drinking at all until I was 25 and not really enjoying it until a few years later. But this is not true. I now own up to the time I sneaked some of Dad's Gran Marnier into a Horlick's Malted Milk Tablets bottle and sipped it out in the garage and it made me feel good. There was a lot of family stress at the time and it was a little escape. Another time some guests were over and the adults were mixing Kahlua into milk and I got a little cup of it too - it felt good and I wanted more for which I was chided and felt very embarrassed. I think at that time subconsciously I vowed that someday I'd have all the alcohol I wanted and .... for a while there I sure did. I am apparently hard to kill. Another time family was falling into poverty and Mom and friends got some Akadama plum wine anyone remember that stuff? ..The escape into alcohol is a side-effect and it's escapism from real problems. And it's not good for us physically it's just not good for us. So it's better to not fall into the trap. ..I'm an alcoholic. I hopefully will stay sober for the rest of my life but I am an alcoholic. There's no such thing as an ex-alcoholic any more than there's such thing as an ex-Marine. 
