-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/4jm4rn/have_you_ever_relapsed_and_how_long_did_it_last/

I relapsed a few months ago and have been struggling to get days back. Now I have 23 days but I still feel like drinking . Does the obsession go away?   I know it does . I'm on steps 123 and pray every morning go to meetings every day.
----------immediate responses--------

What about the other steps? I've never relapsed but the obsession to drink didn't leave me until I was honestly going through all 12 steps with my sponsor.
    I relapsed after almost 5 years sober. Working the steps. Sponsoring men. 6 meetings a week. I started taking credit for what the program and my higher power had done for me. Stopped taking my own inventory while starting to take everyone else's inventory. Then one day came where I decided to take a drink to prove a point to my Girl at the time. To prove to her that her drinking the way she was needed to stop and show her what it had done to me. Classic manipulation and I couldn't even see that. Didn't have a second thought about it just walked into a bar and had 2 drinks.... Planned on coming back to A.A. The next day. .   That didn't happen though. I stayed out almost 2 years. Destroyed that relationship and a lot of other ones. 6 months ago I walked into a meeting on a Sunday morning. Drunk and crying. I got a sponsor the next day and immediately began working the steps again. Now I'm going through them with a group of men I trust in a step study format as well. I couldn't be happier and I haven't had a thought of a drink in months. .   For me it was getting right back into the work. New inventory making amends and helping others. I helped out around my group until I got my sponsors blessing to begin working with others again. I've always been of the mentality that we don't get well THEN help others. We get well BY helping others. ..Good luck!
I've been sober since February 2015 and I've found that the obsession doesn't "go away" but it does quiet down with time. Nowadays it's more "I could go for a drink right now" and not "**I NEED A FUCKING DRINK!!!**" You still hear it but that voice becomes easier to ignore the longer you have. At least that's my experience with this.
Only one stretch of time away from a drink that was long enough to consider the subsequent one-time drug use a 'relapse.'  But I could immediately tell that I was on a dangerous downhill slope.  Every ounce of spiritual connection (with whatever was out there - be it man or god) I had struggled to make evaporated instantly.  ..And I felt an intense fear; I had made a solemn promise to myself to follow the path of recovery to the best of my ability and I had violated that oath and I did it knowingly without provocation and in full awareness of the consequences...I realized then that I was fully capable of repeating the process of halfhearted sobriety followed by relapse over and over until I was dead.  It wasn't until that realization that I understood the full implication of powerlessness...Up until then I figured that step one was a speed bump of sorts.  Now I realize that it is a brick wall.  Despite strong will upstanding character good manners blah blah blah I am going to utterly destroy my life and everything and everybody within reach despite my best intentions.  Left to my own devices that is what is going to happen.  No question...Unless...Unless I can find a way to establish and maintain a contact with a power greater than myself that I am willing to follow *no matter* what my brain decides is a better idea...This is what I tell myself - "Struggling?  Tough.  Got a craving?  Too bad.  Life is hard?  Fuck you.  Get to a meeting.  Call your sponsor.  Pray like you mean it an honest communication with HP not some cut-and-dried mumbo-jumbo.  Quit feeling sorry for yourself and go do some service work.  Go and make yourself *useful* to others and stop the self-pity because you got your *feelings* hurt.  Do it and do it *now*."..Of course I say this to myself and would never openly treat another person in recovery that way.  But being this hard on myself is what I need to accept that my brain is going to do me wrong every time every chance it gets...When I did my third step I decided that my life is no longer my own.  I gave it away for HP to do with as it sees fit.  If that means a life of constant obsession constant sorrow and constant pain so be it.  I used up my chances.  But so far HP has not seen fit to make the terms of that bargain so bad.  Life is good.  I've got internet and free time to use it at the very least...Step three is the decision.  Steps four through nine are the *means* to make that decision manifest in your life.  If you have done the 1-2-3 dance and never put any effort into the next few steps your decision for all its earnestness will remain barren.  You will always struggle because you have not really surrendered anything of value.  You have treated the first step as a speed bump and not gotten out of the driver's seat of the vehicle...If this seems harsh and extreme I apologize.  But this is what works for me.  I'm sure there are kinder ways and kinder people out there.  But only the harshest self-criticism was sufficient to break the cycle of endless self-justification for me.
This might help...  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vQCyDbjJUg
The obsession went away for me after about a year and a half. I actually can't pin point it to an exact day. But I noticed the more I went to meetings and the more I worked the program the more sobriety delivered for me the happier I was the less I thought about drinking. That and the constant reminder that to drink is to die.
Most important thing for you to understand is that relapse is a *symptom* of the addiction. It happens. The important thing is to get back up and start over again. And again if necessary.   .   .I relapsed at around 90 days twice. Now it's been nearly two years and I can't imagine having another drink. Like ever.    .The obsession is the worst part. I don't know if you have any access to a psychiatrist or an addiction specialist but for me the obsession was completely lifted by a medication called [naltrexone](https://www.google.com/webhp?sourceid=chrome-instant&amp;ion=1&amp;espv=2&amp;ie=UTF-8#q=naltrexone%20alcohol). I know it's really hard to believe but it works. If you can't see a specialist for it I would try to see a general practitioner. I honestly think that after months in rehab and a year in sober living the naltrexone was maybe the key that let me put it all together.   .    .Keep at it. 
Others have covered ways to et back on track so I will just say that in my experience the obsession absolutely goes away. I'm i. My fifth year now and I can't remember the last time I felt the obsession creeping in. It's a relief. 
I found it was about 20 months when I realized I hadn't had a craving for awhile.  
It's the steps we take not the meetings we make.  The steps were meant to be worked at a rapid pace and when they are worked that way per the precise directions in the Big Book the success rate is rate is ridiculously high.  Like 75% plus.  The archives show many Akron groups have 93% plus success rates for years...Steps 1-3 require no action.  They can be worked in a matter of hours.  If you are serious about becoming recovered then I would find a serious sponsor who has had a spiritual awakening and has the obsession removed and I would get into your inventory as quickly as possible...Best of luck bro.
Took me 8 months to get more than a couple of months the last time I relapsed in '81. Hope you can grab onto this quicker than I as that was not a pleasant period to endure.
