-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/4joxnz/permanently_on_step_1_moment_of_clarity_relapse/

I'm 26 and I've been going to meetings off and on for 8 years; my longest period of uninterrupted sobriety was about 90 days (and about a month after that after drinking once). I have been through in patient treatment 3 times and out patient treatment about a dozen different times. I have never been off of probation for more than a year and been to jail about 6 times. I got my first OVI 6 years ago and have gotten 2 more with in several months of getting my license back each time. I have numerous possession charges and a drug trafficking felony. ..Recently I just spent a month in jail and was out for 3 days before I relapsed in those 3 days I went to 7 different meetings and spent time with my sponsor (who I obtained in jail because they run meetings for inmates) and co-sponsor that I met the day I got out of jail. In jail I read the first 165 pages as well as the doctors opinion and some of the appendix all of which I've read before. I was really truly broken down this time or so I thought. I'm an atheist but I began praying/meditation and was feeling really good and thought that maybe I had conquered the 2nd step. Toward the end I was reciting the 3rd step prayer (pg 63) in the morning and at night and my sponsor agreed that if I felt ready I could start writing my 4th step. ..Well I don't know what happened but I'm completely back to my old way of thinking since the weekend has passed. I started to get very angry and resentful and a lot of the God talk because the meetings around here are very churchy. It's like people can't accept that I have a different view: they say it can be what ever you want and how you understand it then turn around and say that you will know when God starts talking to you. Well what if my conception of a higher power is incapable of communicating with me? What if I don't understand it because I don't want to make leaps of faith and disregard logic?? I know I made huge steps in jail and could keep going with them but now I feel uncomfortable praying like I was. Despite all the stupid shit I do I am certain than Im intelligent why can't I wrap my head around this? ..I walked out of a meeting last night because I was pissed at something the lead said. I waited outside for my co-sponsor and we talked for a while but I still ended up making my way to one of my old drinking spots. Someone that knew that I was trying to stay sober was at the bar and begged me not to drink but I did it anyway. ..I told my co-sponsor tonight when they picked me up for a meeting and they were disappointed but said that I did the right thing by talking about it. They offered to take me to another meeting afterwards but I made up an excuse that I was tired. Now I'm sitting at home with a 40oz and a tall boy wondering if I'm one of those people who suffer from grave emotional or mental disorders or am constitutionally incapable of being honest with myself. ..Im staying at my parents house and if they find out I'm drinking I'll be out on the street before I know it with 39 cents in my bank account because I blew what little money I had on cigarettes and now beer after jail. Shit my co-sponsor even gave me 20 bucks the other day. If I violate my probation I'm going back to jail for 11 more months and would rather face death than deal with the ignorance from other inmates and the disgusting abuse of power from the jail staff. I'm obviously powerless and at the end of my rope here but I keep making up excuses...Maybe I haven't hit rock bottom... Or maybe I'm just doomed to be helpless and will be yet another casualty of this disease. I haven't drank any of my beer yet and am considering coming out to my family and asking to go to treatment again but I know they can't afford it and I don't have insurance. I know I should call my sponsor co-sponsor or one of the many numbers I have but I feel trapped when I talk to any of those people. They don't let me finish a complete thought let alone explain half of what I just explained in this post before proselytizing me. ..Am I hopeless? 
----------immediate responses--------

Sorry that people at meetings are too preachy. Just an obvious suggestion maybe try new meetings? And of course look at your own behavior and judgments and see whether you're letting stuff bother you more than is reasonable. The way you tell it it seems like everything was great and then some religious people talked and made you relapse? That can't be right. What else is going on? Early recovery is hard getting out of jail is hard these are not easy things you're doing but it sounded like you gave yourself a good head start by going to meetings getting a sponsor you can really talk to and getting into a 3rd step prayer habit...Anyway you're not hopeless none of us are. Maybe guilty of some denial minimizing. Before I got sober I spent a lot of time in self-pity kind of doing the first part of the first step but nothing else. I knew I was an alcoholic and my life was unmanageable and that was kind of the end of the story. There was no hope for me so who gives a shit right? This is not a unique thought process it turns out I've heard many people in the rooms describe the same phenomenon. But really what I was doing was just giving myself the excuse to not try and to keep drinking. Remember that your addiction wants you to keep drinking and you will think of all kinds of ridiculous logic to back that up. Don't believe it. You need help and you can stop.
You are not hopeless. ..I don't know what else you will have to change or what thing you are holding onto that is keeping you from getting it now but there is something. You may even know what it is. ..Yes there are people in AA who are too ... whatever. Annoying. A lot of times people say things I feel are wrong but what gets me in trouble is just that need to be right. To know that I'm right about something and that the people who are wrong seem to be just fine even happy in their wrongness. ..If I get stuck in that part of myself I close the door to the help I need often from people who are well wrong about something.
You're not hopeless. And you are not a unique in this. I have heard lots of speakers who were worse off than you countless relapses and in and out of AA for years and yet they found long term sobriety one day. Look up Bob Darrell ot Clancy I on YouTube if you want. Just from reading your post it sounds like you are still argumentative if only internally with your fellows in AA. Some people just have to be so bottomed out and defeated by alcoholism that the sense of defending their "opinions" is utterly demolished and they finally listen and just do what is suggested without hesitation.  I personally need a higher power that I really believe in and feel and today I do. Today I feel connected to life I know that my problems are of my own making and I cannot fix them alone. Who/what can is up to the individual but it has to be something larger than me. I started out with my higher power being human goodness or good in general. The people in AA seemed to be good people I believed that I had the capacity to be a good person and that there is a common sense of goodness that we all have that ties us together. Other people call it God but it is the same thing to me. I had to get in touch with that goodness within me and my fellow man and the steps did that for me. I cannot will myself into being good but I can do things that I know are good to become "gooder" haha. The book says to try to leave the door of willingness to believe open just slightly but it sounds to me like you have yours locked tight. Maybe try changing that perspective? Get a sponsor and help other people above all else and go through the steps honestly while you are being helpful to others. You're a good person and you deserve a meaningful sober life :)
I gave up looking for rational logical answers to my irrational illogical condition....I'm atheist but have leaned to open my mind to the possibility that I may not have all (or any) of the answers.   The word God still makes me cringe because of my christian associations to it....But there have been many concepts of god throughout humanity.  I try to use it as a place holder/alternate name for the things that do work to help me stay sober....Therapy has also been invaluable to me in figuring out why I'm so desperate to self medicate my emotions away....Ar you seeing any medical professionals on a regular basis?....
You're not going to like this...I come from a group that pulls no punches and doesn't sugar-coated things okay? So here's what I see in your post...You're frustrated about the results you're not getting from the work you're not doing...You seem to be trying to think your way out of this mess and you thought your way into it. You've been bouncing in and out of the rooms doing the 1-2-3 polka and keep dropping back into old patterns. So ACT already. Stop thinking you can think. You've proven that you're not very good at it and thinking your way out isn't working...Act. ACT. Get off your ass face whatever is in your way and DO YOUR GODDAMNED FOURTH STEP!!! This program can only work if you do...Find me one...ONE...AA with some sobriety that thought it was a mistake to do a 4th. ..Hopeless? You want hope? It's on the other side of your 4th step. Until you do that and all the others you won't see much in the way of hope. ACT...Sorry if this sounds harsh but I come from a group called BadBoys and we kick butts not tickle chins. I needed my butt kicked when I was right where you are delaying my 4th and bitching about my lack of progress. I got the kick in the ass I needed rolled out of the trenches and went to war on my defects. That's what gave me hope that's what gave me results and that's what kept me sober.
People saying things at meetings don't get you drunk. The outside work and other people aren't to blame for your alcoholism. If you whole heartedly go through the steps (first 164 pages) you will get sober. Just try it. Surrender or end up institutionalized or dead. It's plain to see. Stop fighting 
Are you hopeless? That's really up to you.  ..&gt;If we want something we don't have;..&gt;We've got to do something we've never done. 
The minimum threshold of willingness for getting and staying sober is to call another member and talk before you drink again. When you see yourself doing that then you'll know it's possible (with lots more effort on your part) to alter your future for the better...Choosing the drink instead of asking for help means what you've been through is as good as your drinking will ever be and you'll find yourself looking back on your recent past as the good old days before things got seriously unpleasant...Terrible that we are faced with the choice of either living well or enduring ever worse consequences. Due to the nature of alcoholism most of us choose the latter. Odd isn't it?
You haven't done any of the actual work yet. Give it a shot. 
