-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/4js8bv/kombucha_and_aa/

I'm Jane and I'm an alcoholic...I have recently become infatuated with kombucha. As a recovering alcoholic part of the struggle is finding something that tastes good to drink that isn't water (or booze). I recently found out that kombucha has trace amounts of alcohol in it. However I've never felt buzzed after drinking it...What are y'all's opinions on it? Should I stop drinking it and find another favorite drink? Should I stop if I begin to rely on it because of the trace amounts of alcohol? What would you do or what would your sponsor likely tell you?..I'm not looking for loopholes by drinking fermented tea with trace amounts of alcohol in it. I am trying to be as honest and sincere in my recovery in order to hopefully prevent a relapse in the future. I'm trying to do everything the best way I can...Any advice input or opinions would be greatly appreciated. 
----------immediate responses--------

Well I wouldn't take medication that has alcohol in it. A good example of that is NyQuil. So would I drink something that has trace amounts of alcohol? I would not. I would not drink Non Alcoholic beer because what's the point? I guess if it doesn't trigger you that's your decision. My concern when putting something in my body is will it trigger that reaction that will make me insane. That will make me want to go find alcohol and drink as much of it as possible. My past sponsors definitely would say stay away from shit if you're questioning it. But that's just my take.
What are your motives?..Are you drinking it for that sense of ease and comfort?  Doesn't sound like it to me...Does drinking it trigger you to drink alcohol?  Doesn't sound like it to me...Will drinking it lead you to think you can start drinking actual booze as long as it doesn't affect you?  I can't answer that for you.  Depends on whether you start obsessing over alcohol or not...Is it better to be safe than sorry?  I can't answer that for you...Earlier on in my recovery I wouldn't touch anything that had even trace amounts of alcohol.  As the years went by I discovered I could take nighttime cold/cough medicine to alleviate symptoms before bed and I could eat spaghetti cooked with a can of beer in the recipe and be OK.  Now would I drink a beer or a shot or a glass of wine?  Nope.
If I were deathly allergic to peanuts  I wouldn't eat something that had even trace amounts of peanuts in it.  Period.  If you are an alcoholic you have an allergy to alcohol and shouldn't consume alcohol. 
None for me thanks. 
The fact that it concerns you suggests to me it's something to avoid. Your life and your sobriety are worth an abundance even an overabundance of caution  
We cannot consume alcohol safely- it says so in the Doctor's opinion...It's one thing to drink something factory made with trace amounts of alcohol but if you're making something at home or buying it from a natural vendor there's always the chance...Good taste is in all sorts of things you can do without kombucha...Try bubble tea or something.
It's got alcohol in it...That's the end of the discussion for me.
Don't poke the sleeping gorilla...I don't even like using mouthwash with alcohol. Tastes like mint-flavored vodka to me.
A tiny bit of arsenic in your cornflakes probably wouldn't hurt you either so use as much as you're comfortable with. ..But keep away from my cornflakes.
Very interesting question.  As a rule I avoid everything that contains alcohol from toothpaste and mouthwash to 'near beer.'  I have to abstain completely..."These allergic types can never safely use alcohol in any form at all..." - The Doctor's Opinion xxvi..So I looked up Kombucha and found [Myths vs Truths:](http://www.phoenixhelix.com/2013/03/25/kombucha-myths-vs-truths/).."Kombucha is an alcoholic drink. TRUE. However it's a very small amount usually between .5 and 3% depending on length of fermentation."..Then I looked up [alcohol content of beer:](http://getdrunknotfat.com/alcohol-content-of-beer/)..There are quite a few beers between %.5 &amp; %3 and I am confident that if I started drinking them I would relapse or consider myself in relapse.
I personally drink Kombucha and have been sober 8.5 years
I had to give it up too. I was really pretty sad about it because I LOVED it but I could feel the buzz kicking in and I was really scared to ignite the obsession. I had to throw it away. I don't want to put myself in harms way for a fizzy tea. 
[This article](http://evolvedrecovery.com/kombucha/) discusses it in a balanced way I think. I drink kombucha but only those varieties that are legally considered non-alcoholic containing .5% alcohol or less. I also like the author never take them to meetings out of respect. I've discussed it with my sponsor and she drinks kombucha too. Its something I drank long before I got sober and have never thought of it as an alcoholic beverage. Its not a trigger for me and is neither able to get me drunk at that ABV and doesn't make me want to proceed to other beverages that would. But that's me and those are the conclusions I've drawn based on my experience feedback from my sponsor and how it affects me personally.
I drink a very dliute Tang which has a much better sodium to potassium ratio than Gatorade. I like it. Hawaiian Sun canned drinks are something I grew up with and my favorite since age 10 has always been passion-orange. Dunno if you can get those. Seltzer water is good it's fizzy so you feel like you're getting a treat and you can mix things in. You might consider getting a SodaStream then you can make all sorts of fizzy drinks. Cranberry is supposed to be a good mixer. ..My own policy is "not one more teaspoon" hard and final. I use alcohol-free mouthwash. ..SodaStream + various herbal teas might make very interesting iced teas with a fizzy touch. 
Only you can make that decision.  I have to use a rx medication topically that contains alcohol.  I can smell it and it does get into the skin.  If I were to take an ETG test it would show up positive.  ..Does that mean that I'm not sober?  HECK NO!  Trace alcohol is everywhere.  If you eat storebought bread (the wonderbread type) you're consuming at least trace amounts of alcohol.  My rule is....am I drinking an alcoholic beverage?  In my case while I don't like Kombucha AT ALL I don't think it in itself is going to torpedo you're sobriety.  ..my two cents
