-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/4jyda6/10_years_in_and_struggling_with_the_god_thing/

This is how I explained it to my best friend in recovery. I chose dog meat because I knew the idea would upset him. ..... A man is sick and dying. He is taken in by a group of people that offer him help. He decides he wants to live. They love him and nurse himand give him a whole new plan for living. But they nursed him back to health with dog meat. At first he did not want to eat it but he was desperate. Over time as he healed he came to not mind it so much and even looked forward to certain recipes. His life was remarkably transformed. He began helping others but eventually he started to question the whole dog meat thing. The more he thought about it the less he could stand it. the people around him just kept on loving him but kept right on serving dog meat. He doesn't currently eat the dog meat anymore and tries desperately not to mention it but it has become a very sore subject between him and his friends. ..Can of worms - open.
----------immediate responses--------

Stuff like this is oddly inspirational to me. I've got almost three years and me and God are good for right now. But I need to hear about struggles from people with more sobriety than me because I can't think for one second that life is going to get easy. ..I really like your dog meat analogy. But it's not a big deal to change it up. So you don't like dog meat anymore? That's fine. There's also bird meat and cow meat and pig meat even NO meat. You get to choose what you consume and no one gets to give you a hard time about it. And if they wanna keep eating dog? Well more power to em. 
Well you are entitled to believe whatever you want and the question of what God is if anything at all is as old as man itself. It's up to you. I believe there is some common sense of good within us that connects us. Even if that inner goodness has arisen by chance and biology over thousands of years that is still incredible to me. We can live happy lives and it feels good to help other people yet we have selfish desires that go counter to that idea as well. Learning to manage ourselves in relation to the world and people around us in a good way is spirituality to me. If in 1 million years we are all dead and there is no afterlife and humans had no impact on the universe the fact remains that today I am alive and I can make a difference in another person's life today and it makes me feel good inside.  I consider myself Christian but do I believe everything in the Bible as "truth"? No. I still can't wrap my head around it and I never will. Do I really believe there is an infinite God that cares about me as a person? Well that's part of my life journey and experience and today I do. But God or no God why not strive for goodness? It feels good to me :)
I'm going to attempt to respond how I feel inside your metaphor - the dog meat was served to me but I didn't eat it - I ate other things because no matter how much the others said they liked dog meat - I simply could not put it in my mouth I have never cared if others eat it but it wasn't for me.  Instead I ate cow or pig or chicken and had the same result as the people who ate dog meat...  I lived and became healthy...The dog meat doesn't cause me to feel uncomfortable and because I don't care about what others eat - it hasn't become a sore subject...Now if someone was to FORCE dog meat on me or tell me it was the ONLY way to get healthy I would mention that I got better without dog meat - but to those who love dog meat it's not going to make any difference what I say about it.
I would change your analogy.  'Dog meat' sounds disgusting.   What if you choose 'fresh air' instead?...Now the analogy takes on an entirely different feel. ...I don't believe in God in the Christian/Judea sense.  But I do see/feel the benefits in living the spiritual way as outlined in the program.   ...What do you think is going on with you that has you questioning the path that has worked so well for you for so long?...Are you finding yourself thinking about possibly drinking again? .. 
I like your analogy a lot and have absolutely nothing to say otherwise...For now.  I reserve the right to change my mind.
I am increasingly amazed at how much attention the "God thing" recieves here.  I have such a weak and incomplete understanding of my own higher power that I would be most accurately described as an agnostic.  However I do not believe I am omnipotent.  I also have no aversion to or prejudice against the way others describe their own beliefs about God faith or other spiritual beliefs...The word God is used in the Big Book and the steps but so are more than 35 other capitalized words (by my incomplete count) to describe a power greater than ourselves.  Where is the outcry against having Great Reality (p. 55 and 161) or Spirit of Nature (p. 12) or Brotherhood of Man (p. 11) "forced upon" AA members belief systems?  IMHO the BB authors recognized that aversion to and prejudice against God and religion were going to be impediments to some in AA and took great pains to provide ample workarounds...Chapter 4 of the Big Book says "In our personal stories you will find a wide variation in the way each teller approaches and conceives of the Power which is greater than himself.  Whether we agree with a particular approach or conception seems to make little difference.  Experience has taught us that these are matters about which for our purpose we need not be worried.  They are questions for each individual to settle for himself."..Never in more than 12 years of active AA membership has anyone (Sponsor member speaker) told me or even suggested how or what I should think about my own concept of my higher power.  I am a member of some old school meetings right here in the birthplace of AA and I have not experienced any pressure subtle or overt about the God thing.  Sometimes I wonder if this is used as a convenient wearworn excuse rather than a valid concern...In any event AA has taken so many forms that even if I ever felt uncomfortable I would just change meetings to one that had an approach that was more comfortable.  There are many AA meetings specifically tailored for agnostics atheists and free thinkers which specifically and explicitly avoid the God thing.  AA today is a broad highway...I feel so blessed to have come into AA and not having had to pick up a drink since that I would hate for someone not to give it a try or to leave before the miracle happens for some false reason.  There may be many reasons to leave AA but in my experience and opinion the God thing should be one of the weakest.  Grateful to be sober today.
Decided to re-comment here.  I have come to the conclusion that I will always have a tenuous and rocky relationship with a god of my understanding.  This does not make me a bad person.  Just because others have somehow found a deep and abiding faith does not mean that I need to judge myself according to their standards and come up short.  I am truly agnostic in that I do not believe that man in his limited capacity for thought can truly discern the nature of god.  Every conception must be incomplete precisely because it is a human conception...I pray because it makes me humble.  The connection to the 'other side' is of absolutely no concern to me.  I meditate because it makes me calm.  I live by spiritual principles because they work...I accept doubt as part of my nature just as others accept faith as part of theirs.  How can I be pretend to be otherwise?  That would be lying.
That's truly bizarre. You choose any analogy (eating dog meat) to trash what just an analogy (God). I case you've missed it in AA it's "God as you understand it" it's up to each any everyone of us to create our own analogy of what this higher power or inner strength is that's keeping us sober. You can choose for it not to be dog food. You can choose to eat elsewhere - this is what Step 11 is all about you don't have to stick on Step 3 eating dog food - you deserve better.
(Dog meat was good enough for Lewis &amp; Clarke) ..I was raised w/o any religion except Science. I finally grew up enough to realize that whether there is a God or not is not a question we can answer and that a human trying to understand God is like an ant trying to understand a supercomputer. I choose to believe there is a God and God is well everything the ultimate superset and if believing in God/Higher Power/AA family/collective subconscious/whatever helps than use it. ..I saw a great saying recently: "Religion is for those who fear going to Hell spirituality is for those who've been there". 
If possible check out "Study Guide to the AA Big Book" by Ken W...The first paragraph of the book reads:.. &gt; This is a Study Guide to the book Alcoholics Anonymous. It is dedicated to those who want recovery from alcoholism but have difficulty with the word "God". Especially as that word gets used by individuals who embrace traditional religious concepts of what it means to them. Be advised that other ideas and interpretations which are consistent with the basic AA text also have value and usefulness in the recovery process.
