-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/4kuf45/how_can_i_combat_feelings_of_not_being_good_enough/

I've been struggling a lot at work lately with feeling like I mess everything up or that I'm not good enough. Logically I know I'm doing a great job but it's the type of place that acknowledges only mistakes so I become fixated on those and allow them to taint my entire view of my work performance. .It's become increasingly difficult to come into work lately I'm sobbing on the way in the car when I'm here I'm tip toe-ing around waiting for the next criticism to come. .Does anyone have any suggestions on how to remind myself that I'm doing okay and that I'm not a complete and utter failure?
----------immediate responses--------

First of all I like your username! ..Criticism is a hard thing to handle I struggle with it even after several years of sobriety. But I do know that the more self-esteem I have overall the more it positively affects the way I deal with and interpret hearing that I 'did something wrong' (which in itself could be looked at as 'did something outside of the expected framework of which this job/person/company would like'). ..A lot of it for me comes down to self-esteem. The more comfortable I am in my own skin the less I let other things (like work) define me. You are not your job and it does not define you. And a job is just a job--nothing more nothing less. ..For me the more things I do in a day that I can feel proud of the less chance other things will have an impact on how I view myself. For example if I wake up make my bed spend a few extra minutes of self care by drinking coffee without rushing say something nice to someone on my way out the door or try to help someone in a simple on my way to work I'm already in a better place. Self-esteem comes from esteem-able acts. ..And also nothing is permanent. You can make a choice at some point to change your job if it is not serving you. But I've had jobs similar in nature and I used them as a learning and growth exercise until I was able to change my situation--frequently asking myself 'why did that upset me so much' and reminding myself that the job was not 'who I was.'  Not sure if any of this helped but hang in there!
That doesn't sound like normal anxiety/having a bad day.  have you spoken to a Dr or a therapist?
Having a therapist gave me tools to deal with situations like yours. It also helped me with self esteem issues. You sound like you could use more support. 
I have a variety of self-esteem issues (a lot of those come from living with an active alcoholic) and I have been disgnosed with General Anxiety Disorder...The things I have found to help over the last 6 years (went to rehab and these were all things taught to me there).  Meditation for anxiety when I am feeling overwhelmed or I am allowing self-doubt to take over.  Your inner dialog is also something that you can control (surprisingly)....  so even though it made me feel stupid I was given a list of positive messages (Google for a list of your own) and every time I walked through a doorway I paused and said something "nice" about myself.  It actually helped a lot.
Start building your God esteem
Find a new job even if it pays less money.  A toxic work environment is akin to an abusive relationship.  You need to get out in order for the healing to begin and the longer than you stay the more your self worth will be affected..
Have you done an inventory? That is honestly how I address deep-seated probems when they arise and won't go away for myself. I've had many job-related issues I've had to look at in the past and it has always gotten better after I've done that and shared it with my sponsor. And like many others have said some companies or work places just have toxic environments and that's the company's loss because a worker that feels unworthy is not going to be as good a worker as they could be. Maybe try to find opportunities to compliment a coworker once a day if you can. One person can begin to shift a work culture.
I learnt how to deal with this when doing step 4 and I continue to practice the technique when this kind if behaviour crops up again in step 10. A fundamental principle of step 4/10 is forgiveness and they way that we practice that in AA is through the step 4 prayer. Once I started to use this prayer repeatedly on people at work who constantly criticised me something amazing happen. I started to feel better about myself their criticism stopped affecting me so much and most miraculously they even started to change. Pretty soon the culture of my organisation seemed to change it struck me that I was no longer worked for a company which thrived on blame everyone seemed to be kind and encouraging and all because I had started to pray in a particular way. All all I had done was start to repeat on a daily basis a couple of prayers that I had found in chapters 5 and 6 in the book Alcoholics Anonymous. The most miraculous thing in all this is that I don't consider myself religious at all I don't go to church in fact I think of myself as an atheist. I have come to believe that prayer is probably the most powerful thing I can do in circumstances such as this. It alters my perception of reality and this has a knock on effect on others around me.
