-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/4npfmd/9_years_poof/

Not going to go into a long and excuse ridden story here. I spent the last 9 years of my life sober and all of a sudden something inside me asked "what would 1 night of relief hurt" while my wife was out of town?."Relief" being a drink. And I wasn't strong enough to resist. I wish I could say I was back to day 1 but since that drink I haven't even gotten that far. I can feel my thought process changing now and reverting back to the selfish and withdrawn personality I have fought so hard to overcome because my wife deserves so much better..I pray that soon I find my strength. The accepted thing I cannot change. Wisdom is not enough because I KNOW the difference. ..No Alcolohic can easily escape their addiction until they truly embrace the fact that the consequences of drinking are far more horrific than anY reward they may feel when they drink. I know this it is my creed and still I struggle...I don't make this post because I want support. sympathy or even response. I make this post because if YOU haven't  taken the break from XX years of sobriety I want you to know that it's just 1 drink away and you will NOT be back to day 1. It's worse than that.
----------immediate responses--------

Thanks for the post.  Wise words.  You can do this.
Thank you for your post.  It helped me a lot this morning.  Best wishes in finding your way back as soon as possible. My thoughts are with you.
Stay as safe as you possibly can and keep trying to make it back to this side of things.
I went on a 4 year nightmarish relapse.  I feel your pain...However I made it back and so can you.  I have since discovered that there are many of us that have had relapses and made it back.  The slang term for it around here is "retread."
you might want to lawyer up get an apartment and a delivery service from the local liquor store__I'm just sayin'__also this would be a good time to make sure you have term life insurance
Go out and get the pain you need... Only you can decide when enough is enough. Much love brother thanks for your share
My relapse was 18 years. Your post confirms my susicions about what waits for me should I pick up. .My denial was so strong the thought of returning to meetings didn't cross my mind. Or when I had fleeting glimpses of clarity I shouted them down quick smart. ..You've got some clarity it seems.  Hang on to it. 
Thanks. I need to hear that.
I roomed with a woman in rehab that was sober for 19 years until she wanted a glass of wine while camping with friends....  lead her to a 6 year relapse where she lost her marriage her home her car and her kids weren't speaking with her....  I always keep that womans story in the back of my mind and when I'm feeling complaisant - I pull it out and mull over it.
There is help if you want it. 
Why is it worse to relapse than your first day? Is it being discouraged or is it something chemically inside? I'm going to my first meeting tonight probably long overdue. I stopped drinking last year for about 6 weeks and I didn't really notice a difference when I started drinking again. Although I didn't really believe I had a problem at the time. I stopped for weight loss. 
Thank you for posting you helped me a lot tonight.  I am sorry for your struggles and wish you Godspeed in getting back on track as quickly as possible.  I accept we are probably beyond human power but my only encouragement would be to make that first positive step back towards recovery.  I hope some day you will feel comfortable elaborating on what happened because I could benefit from learning from your experience.  You are in my thoughts and prayers.
[deleted]
I can't say thank you enough for you candor and bravery for sharing.  I'm just a little over a year sober and you've helped me get perspective today; which is beyond appreciative. ..I hate feeling like I'm giving unsolicited advice so I will only go so far as to say "Get your ass to a meeting.  Even if you fake; fake it till' you make it.  Just show up every day and go from there.".
