-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/4sr07p/what_do_you_think_of_people_who_use_steroids_in/

Hey guys I'd like as many opinions as we can get here. What do you think about people who use steroids in recovery? I will give you a past experience of mine...Around 6 months sober I chose to start a cycle of steroids. I'm not going to try to justify why I did or if I think it changed my behavior. I wanted to look good and it's sneaky behavior no argument to it. I confessed to my sponsor while working the steps and was afraid of what he would say. He told me it would be smart to stop immediately which I had already finished taking steroids. I asked him if this counts as a relapse or a slip. He asked me my intentions. I told him how I felt I wanted to look good and I didn't like how I looked since I had always been so skinny. He told me he didn't believe I had to reset the date however it is very common that when an addict uses steroids a relapse typically follows afterwards. When my sponsor moved away and I got a new sponsor I had confessed this too him as well. This new sponsor I have is an old timer and he claimed the same opinion. I'm approaching 2 years sober now. I have heard so many different opinions on this subject and obviously I've heard the opinions of people who have sponsored me. What do you guys think? Give me your opinion good or bad with an explanation if you wish..
----------immediate responses--------

I know very little about steroids.  Except that they're pretty bad for you. ...And they can make you quick to anger.   ...Sounds like something to avoid IMO...Congratulations on 2 years.   That is huge.   
I know a guy who did exactly what you're describing. He ended up relapsing got angry and delusional from it's effects. Alcoholics don't fair well with stimulants. I recommend learning to be healthy and being passionate about fitness instead of trying to fast-track yourself into bulk.
I would not consider it a relapse a lapse in sober judgement though definitely. I empathize with your discomfort with yourself but generally shortcuts to mitigate discomfort that involve drugs would be well down the 'road to relapse' if you go in for that sort of thing. It is commendable that you were honest with your sponsors regarding this issue many won't do that.
I don't consider steroids "mood altering" and as such I don't consider it a relapse...I can see what you sponsor is saying though - you didn't do "the next right thing" when you chose to use steroids without a doctor monitoring you.  This is typical drug seeking behaviour and could lead to a relapse with your DOC.
Steroids are dangerous. For health reasons alone please stop. 
I think their fools for using steroids in recovery. The side effects alone can cause a relapse
I knew a guy who used steroids during recovery and he ended up dying from the disease a few months ago.  His name was Steve G.       R.I.P.
