-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/4t7lhi/living_with_an_alcoholic_need_advice/

I'm not sure if this is the right subreddit to post this question but I'm going to post it anyway. Sorry if this is the wrong place...A friend of a friend and I just moved in to an apartment and I was somewhat aware of his struggle with alcohol. What I didn't realize was how severe his struggle is. It was obvious he loves to drink and be social but it wasn't obvious as to what happens when he drinks alone (and no one really does... he's alone). Once he starts he's not stopping... not even for a 8:30 am conference call the next morning. He hasn't been to work AT ALL this week... His boss made him sign a contract that said he would be sober for the next 90 days and this is the third time his violated it and I'm now concerned he might not have a job Monday. ..Since we moved in (three days ago) it's now apparent how much he needs help and how much I don't know how to handle this situation. ..The 1/2 half gallon of whiskey I had in one of my moving boxes was bone dry when I got home the first night in the apartment... It was clear who drank it... but my new roommate "wasnt drinking" at the time so it made me question if I was crazy...I'm worried about him being violent and destructive. Here's the advice I'm seeking - how do I go about this situation? I want him to get help but I'm not sure how to go about that...
----------immediate responses--------

Best place to find help is from other people that have lived with alcoholics and the place to find them is r/alanon.  ..Lock your shit up especially the booze. Establish firm boundaries and stick to them. But most importantly be aware that there is no way he will ever change until he wants to. You can express your concern for his welfare but there's a chance he might tell you it's none of your business.  ..Alanon has a protective strategy called "loving detachment". Ask more about it at the link I provided above.
Well I'm not sure how quick you can anule/move out of that contract/that house. You might want to look at either having him leave or leaving yourself. There's no way in hell I would tolerate living with an alcoholic (I know hypocrisy right?). I wouldn't waste your breath trying to get him to drink less because if he's an alcoholic the only thing that can make him stop is wanting to stop. I feel like you'll be in for a long year (or however long your contract to rent is) if you stay put.
Ditto on everything already said here - But the thing is you need to protect yourself.  Get outta there if you can before it gets worse - and it will get worse until he decides to get help. ..
I would suggest the advice of r/alaon..I personally would get out of that situation as soon as possible 
I'd find another roommate. This situation isn't likely to improve unless your friend gets professional help and/or stops drinking. AA is also an option. It's not your job to get him help and if even the threat of losing his job isn't motivating him you aren't going to do it either. Help yourself! Move or ask him to move out. 
