-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/4uadzl/been_irritated_during_meetings_lately/

I only have a few weeks sober been sober before with aa for years but relapsed. Lately the people in some of the meetings irritate me when they share. This one woman shares and it almost sounds as if she's bragging she shares how she has full acceptance works the steps calls her sponsor everyday but she shares in a way that is so irritating as if she's the mother Teresa of sobriety. Other people irritate me they share the same crap over and over and just annoy me. Is this normal for me? I really can't stand certain people in AA and want to put earplugs on when they share. It all so corny sounding people like its a rehearsed share. I can't help it if I feel this way but I do can anyone else relate?..Also the stupid slogans that don't coincide with the big book. Like if you don't remember your last drink you probly haven't had it" yes I don't remember my last drink the big book tells me I won't too...I'm just tired of sitting in a room and hearing people spout one liners don't these people read the book.  .I llike speaker meetings where I can listen to people's experience strength and hope.
----------immediate responses--------

Principles before personalities. Remember Bill Wilson was every bit as sick as WE are. .Did you stay sober through the entire meeting where the sharer annoyed you? If nothing else you stayed sober for an hour. We sometimes tell people to hit 90 meetings in 90 days it gets them to a lot of meetings when they most need them and introduces them to different meetings than they would normally be comfortable going to. I found a bunch of meetings that it turns out I truly enjoy that way. 
Having a sponsor and working the steps helped me focus on my own issues. When other people irritated me my sponsor said it was an opportunity to learn patience and tolerance. Learning to let go of what I can't control was one of the best things I learned by doing the steps. I can't control what other people say or how they say it. Maybe you annoy the heck out of others. Did you ever think of that? Everyone at AA has a history of pain. Be gentle. ..Talk to your sponsor and work on the steps. I appreciate your honest post. 
I love what /u/co2van and /u/SOmuch2learn typed especially the part about learning how to focus on myself...When I first came in these rooms I was a whirlpool on top of a garbage disposal. I took all the world into myself and my disease helped me solve it all by throwing lots and lots of alcohol and drugs at it. Of course nothing got solved and everything got destroyed...Those first months were brutal. My nerves were raw from no numbing chemicals and on top of that everyone was was so annoying: always repeating themselves repeating slogans etc. There was this one old guy who always talked about how he decided to sober up on the floor of the VA hospital. ..My sponsor said pretty much the exact same thing as /u/SOmuch2learn's did. We come into these rooms without hardly any skills in living a normal life. One of the many great things about recovery is that we get to practice in our rooms our sanctuary before we go out and have to do it in the real world...At my job people are always talking about TV shows. They are always talking about what types of shoes pants shirts whatever to wear. They are always going on and on about what Hillary is doing or Trump or Rush Limbaugh or Kim Kardasian. I used to hate those types of conversations so much that I drank "at" them. I used to drink at a lot of stuff. ..Now after practicing being patient and tolerant in our rooms I can be around almost any type of conversation and I don't get bugged by them. What I finally learned is that I have the power to not let them bug me. Plus I can hear someone say the most unusual stuff and don't even have to put on a poker face...Anyway it will get better after a while. "Time takes time." (OOOOOOO I really really really used to hate that phrase.)
If I am disturbed there is something the matter with me.  This is the best clue I receive that I need to be working on something.  To figure out what I ask my sponser.
I felt the same way at the beginning of my journey with AA. One of the old timers told me "If you like everybody at the meetings you go to you're not going to enough meetings." Then he looked me dead in the eye and said "I'm going to enough meetings." Asshole.
When I don't like a meeting I share from my heart. I've also been known to check out other meetings as well.
"To them their alcoholic life seems the only normal one. They are restless.irritable and discontented unless they can again experience the sense of ease and comfort which comes at once by taking a few drinks drinks which they see others taking with.impunity."..Are you pursuing your sponsor and arranging time to do step work with them or do you just *have* a sponsor? If you have worked the step and have experience with the meeting topic you could share and maybe *NOT* say the same shit every meeting. 
Have you talked and processed this with your sponsor? ..You sound very human to me. I like to take a gander at what is in my control and what is not. .In control: find a different meeting sounds like you prefer speaker meetings so hit a speaker meeting. You'll find out quickly what root cause is...In control: changing how I respond; I have to love people not like people..Out of my control :changing ppl ..When I am feeling R.I.D I jump in and do more service. I make a list of people and things I am grateful for. And I watch this [watch](https://youtu.be/4A6Bu96ALOw)
Hey even now years later people at meetings can bug the crud out of me but I truly couldn't give a fig.... I'm saving MY life being there...And I figure I most likely bug the crap out of a lot of those people too. So its only fair payback ya know?..I just simply never forget I'm fighting to save my life and I earned my seat. 
I've been known to take bathroom breaks when a certain person would share in one of my meetings. He was a combination of all the people that annoy you. Funny thing that I noticed last week was that not only do I not take those breaks anymore but he wasn't there last week and I missed seeing him. Freaked me out a little bit. What you're feeling is normal. It happens and sometimes it passes and sometimes I go looking for new meetings. 
Keep in mind that AA meetings are the fellowship not the actual program. If you're looking for relief you can find it only in the 'program'. Meetings are just "opinions anonymous'. It's a spiritual program. If you're still "restless irritable and discontented" then maybe you need to redouble your program THE program. The program is far more than just not drinking. 
My old sponsor told me: 'Choose your meetings like you choose your pubs. Have a local but mix it around a bit try different ones. Ever been to a pub and come away thinking "That was a shit night"? Did it stop you going to pubs ever again? Of course it didn't. Treat meetings the same.'
It's normal and it comes and goes too.  Most of the time I have no problem just zoning out during a share that I don't particularly like or agree with.  I figure that it's helping someone else; just not me...and that's totally okay. ..The slogans always have pissed me off.  Always will.  They're usually spat out by people who have absolutely nothing to say of any relevance so they're just farting out of their mouths. ..There are meetings where this shit doesn't happen.  They're hard to find though unless you live in a big city.  You're just going to have to keep your program as your program and work it the way it fits you best.  ..For example I'm an atheist.  Don't worry if you are too people as this program can work just as good for you as it does any ultra-spiritual nut-bag.  ..The point is simple.  Just go to a meeting.  Anyone who tries to fuck with you because you're not doing it the exact way they're doing it should just be told to fuck off and keep to their own side of the street.  ..Don't stop going to meetings!  Seriously! .
I did everything these guys say to do and am still sober. At three weeks that's the best advice. 
Page 419 Big Book - " I can do the same thing with an AA meeting. The more I focus my mind on its defects  - late start drunkalogs cigarette smoke - the worse the meeting becomes. But when I try to see what I can add to the meeting rather than what I can get out of it and when I focus my mind on what's good about it rather than what's wrong with it the meeting keeps getting better and better." ..Maybe worth a shot..Peace.
