-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/4urdgh/feelings_toward_meetings/

Hi guys .I didn't see anything in the sidebar so I hope this is okay... ..While I myself have never experienced alcoholism or other substance use issues I have multiple family members who have and I have watched as they (and others around them) struggle as a result. ..I'm currently taking a substance abuse/addictive disorders class..Part of my class is writing a paper about AA (or similar group) meetings. I wanted to focus on the perceptions and the reality of them. Are any of you willing to comment or even PM me what you expected going into your first meeting vs what happened and where you are now? .
----------immediate responses--------

The first meeting I went to was with my Dad.  I was nervous the people were nice it was OK.  I didn't get much out of it I don't remember much of it.  Not sure if I had any expectations.  I continued to go to a few more meetings and in one of them I was verbally attacked by some angry looking red-haired dude.  He said he spilt more than I drank and resented me being there.  I decided AA wasn't for me eventually started drinking again.  A few years later.....The second first meeting I went to was in the hospital I was admitted to and I remember having a cigarette wearing slippers and everything was really fuzzy.  Likely on account of the anti-psychotics I was on.  I am not sure if I had any expectations at that point...I have been clean and sober every since.
Went to my first meeting 4 days sober and a day after leaving detox. With absolutely zero knowledge of AA I planned on going in and being bored talked down to for being only a few days sober uncomfortable and hating all the old people crying about their fucked up lives. I headed to a meeting next to the bar I always drank at and figured after the meeting I'd just go drink again. Instead I was welcomed from the second I announced myself as a newcomer. I was given phone numbers shook hands with everyone in the room and got invited to dinner with some of the regulars. There were no "old people crying about their lives". There WERE a lot of people talking about ideas for recovering from a seemingly hopeless state of mind and body. I was also told about a 2130 meeting that night that had more young people and a looser vibe. That 2130 is now my home group and I don't miss it. I go to quite a few meetings at different locations now. I've spoken at a young people's meeting and lead a couple. The amount of acceptance in the rooms completely blew me away and I've met some amazing people. Aside from doing the work overcoming my fear and stepping through that door were the best ideas I ever had. The book states that "Love and tolerance of others is our code" and it was shown to me from the very beginning. 
Everyone I knew drank: my family my friends my heroes movie stars artists everyone. When I was told repeatedly to go try AA I just thought of them as a bunch of losers. I thought that only losers couldn't handle their booze. So of course I didn't go. I threw money at the problem. I went to specialists psychologists people with LCDCs or other types of substance abuse certificates or licenses. These all just gave me the impression that AA was a bunch of losers who not only couldn't handle their alcohol but that they couldn't handle the rigor of the scientific method.  ..But nothing was working. And I was running out of money insurance and all options in general...So I went into those rooms with low expectations and I was surprised. Luckily my head was clear enough to realize something. All the people in those rooms were there on their own accord. All the people in those rooms kept coming back because of their own desire to do so. And most importantly all the people in those rooms really understood my world. ..You can experience this if you go to Alanon. Nowhere else in the world are there people especially a group of people who experience the same exact pain and suffering and confusion and doubt. For us for me all those counselors and doctors and licensed people had no real idea what it was like to live moment by moment under the influence of the all encompassing powerful mental condition of addiction. No matter how good the science or the method reaching across to another human being in the midst of their pain suffering and despair works best when it is done by someone who knows it in their bones...AA is not perfect. But humanity is not perfect. Humans are not watches or computers. We have these things called feelings and emotions and these things trump science belief and rational thought. There is something about being with a group of like humans in a meeting be it SMART Alanon AA NA CA SA GA CGA et al. that allowed me that allows those like me to face this condition this allergy this disease and allows us to start working on a solution. ..A lot of people bitch and moan and disssemble SMART or AA or whatever but at its core these groups only are there for people to help people learn how to do something good for themselves. Notice  how wide the term "something good" is. I don't have to be a priest  a biker a boy scout a president a martyr a holy person or a victim: unless I choose to do so. I get to choose what "something good" is...With that I can watch how others exactly like me people unable to stop using did it. The things that seem to work get repeated in the books the pamphlets the writings and in the meetings. Since we are not computers or watches there are many ways to have a life to have happiness to have joy to have fun to live through destruction to face the tragedies of life. Thus the group gives us that wide picture of the options available. We get to see living proof of how X did it and suffered how Y did it and didn't. I can choose to do most or some of those things and like many of us we can and we do get new results. We get to start having "something good" in our lives. 
I'm about to pick up my 3 month chip. I try to speak every time I'm in the room to let myself know why I'm there and maybe help someone else with what I have to say. My rock bottom wasn't as bad as some in the room but I did lose a lot due to bad decisions and am still putting the pieces back together. ..There is a lot of drama behind the seems from what I can tell. Everyone has something to say behind someone else's back or a passive aggressive statement added on something someone else said. Just last week I mentioned how I stopped calling my sponsor because I don't want another obligation in addition to work two kids therapy college and managing my sobriety my own way. The gentlemen that spoke after me mentioned how his sponsor said "If you can't call me every day then find a new fucking sponsor". He also made a good point about if you can't call when you don't need to you are likely to not call when you need to. I understand where he is coming from but I didn't pick my sponsor and I don't want one either. ..There are some good success stories in the meetings. I have also seen a few people come back for their second or third 24 hour chip. I don't think the 12 step thing is working for me because I'm not super religious or spiritual. I keep going back to hear everyone's failures and that is what is keeping me sober right now. ..I'm interested in how Bill's acid trials helped him with finding spirituality but can't bring that up in a meeting. It would be too much drama. ..I am taking it one day at a time. ..Sorry about the format or errors. I'm typing this on my phone. ..Until next time. 
I like some meetings and don't like others. But I'm grateful they exist and know I can attend nearly any time of day if I'm ever in trouble staying sober...You can attend an open meeting if you're curious. It is an education and is different from what you see in film and television depictions. 
For an unprompted description try searching /r/stopdrinking for "first meeting". There's tonnes of stuff there...As for me AA has treated me well and I've been sober from my first meeting but I'm intellectually very uncomfortable with most of it. The community is astounding but I have a lot of discomfort around the source material. I'm trying to resolve it because I do really appreciate that I've benefited from AA and it's just plain old good manners to find a way to give back...Out of curiosity: in your class do they talk about AA as a standard of care? 
He wanted to sponsor me. I said sure. He isn't a bad guy just not someone I'd want to hang out with. ..
Have you been to a meeting? They have open meetings for students trying to learn. Try going to a clubhouse and asking for open meetings. Also it sounds like you could definitely benefit from going to some Alanon (not AA) meetings yourself. It's a support group for people who have alcoholics and addicts in their lives.
