-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/4vpmji/my_thoughts_on_the_marijuana_maintenance_plan/

So I know that somewhere in the BB it talks about some people needing outside help. ..I used to go to a meeting with a guy who had been sober for 25 years and was struggling with depression and was working very closely with a psychiatrist to help him out with that. ..When my sponsor with 22 years sober had major dental work done he took a very minimal amount of pain killers(and I had to hear him bitch about how much pain he was in for like 3 days)...I knew a lady with 5 years that needed some outside help with add. So she seen a psychiatrist for it. And then shortly after that I ran into someone with 3 years sober that had similar issues. ..What all those people I'd talked to had in common is they were very concerned about their sobriety when it came to seeking "outside help"...In my opinion when someone considers smoking weed as seeking outside help...They are forgetting about all the things that go into effectively treating an actual real life mental disorder(i.e. depression & anxiety). I get it pharmaceutical medications in a lot of cases are a lot more dangerous for you than a little bit of herb. ..But when you decide to ingest I mind altering substance while completely disregarding all of the other things that go into treating anxiety & depression then you are definitely setting yourself up for failure. ..Maybe in a world where you could work closely with a psychiatrist to help you consume a minimal amount of specific cannibaniods that have a minimal amount of psychoactive properties...Maybe it would fall under the "seeking outside help" category...But we do not live in that world. So just please stop with trying to rationalize your disease carrying over into other mind altering substances as "seeking outside help". That's not what AA was ever suppose to be about. AA is about being free of ALL MIND ALTERING SUBSTANCES. I know lots of people that went out on pot...I've never heard any one say they've been sober for 20+ years thanks to the pot... 
----------immediate responses--------

"That's not what AA was ever suppose to be about. AA is about being free of ALL MIND ALTERING SUBSTANCES."..Bill Wilson the founder of AA had several therapy sessions involving the use of LSD which he found to be very helpful and thought it might even help participants in AA who were struggling with the spiritual aspect of the big book. Just food for thought. :-)
I truely believe that marijuana can help some people but that addicts that smoke weed do so because they are addicts not because they need a medication...The thing about marijuana specifically is that it helps with anxiety and depression for a while then the brain starts to invent anxiety and depression as a way to get high...  this is what happens with addicts anyway.
Working my own program keeps me more than busy; I don't have the time or inclination to work anybody else's. ..Who am I to say what does and does not work for others?  Who are you?  When I preoccupy myself with others I should probably check my motives.
