-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/4wv1qq/50_days_seemed_like_such_an_impossible_number/

51 days ago I wanted to die. I'd had enough. You might be thinking "what the fuck PM_me_your_jeep?". I get it. I usually wore a smile on my face. I came to your party and made jokes. I played music in a band. I worked. I had relationships. I was your friend your brother your uncle your coworker your boyfriend and your drinking buddy. I took care of my dogs got my clothes dry cleaned put myself together and usually paid my bills. I served with you and had your back. But behind my eyes lived a person few had ever seen. That person lived in fear on a daily basis. Fear of what was in the past fear of the present and fear of the future. Fear of who he was and what you thought. Fear of being alone. That person didn't know how to deal with the physical and emotional trauma that had plagued his life since the age of 8. That person didn't think anyone cared. That person decided at 14 that being numb and not dealing with life pain and anxiety was the easier and gentler way to get by. Until is wasn't. Until the numbness didn't come quick enough until the numbness made the fear worse and until the numbness just wasn't enough...I thought I was good at hiding this person but I came to realize that this person had consumed me and I was only hiding the real me. The me with feelings was dead. The me that cared about you was dead. The me that had motivation was dead. I was a giant bug walking around in a fucking Edgar suit; consuming taking and receiving but never giving. ..Life became unmanageable for that person and living became an impossible daily task that required a constant routine of alcohol and other sedatives to attempt but seldom complete. Life was not a priority. Life was trips to a bar or liquor store  sometimes work sometimes the hospital back to the bar or liquor store and eventually a few hours of something resembling sleep. Rinse and fucking repeat. Mornings usually consisted of throwing up in the shower killing the shakes with a few drinks and sometimes eventually making it to whatever I HAD to do that day. The E.R. was too familiar and a 5 foot scope going down my throat was just another battle wound of a life long war. ..50 days ago I woke up in a strange room resembling my old Navy barracks. I was woken up by a man checking my vitals and feeding me a cocktail of pills. How the fuck did I end up in detox? I made a huge mistake. I was just drunk and made a spontaneous decision. I didn't belong here. Or did I? I was shuffled into a room with about 15 strangers. I had no belt no underwear and my pants were falling down because I had lost so much weight from not eating and throwing up. I just needed to sober up for a couple days then I could get back to just having a few drinks here or there like I could when I was 16. I met a few of these people in the room with me. Some drunks some tweakers some heroin addicts and some who liked a little bit of everything. A few veterans men women black white poor and rich. The thing that stuck out to me as I talked to these people was how fucking similar their lives were to mine. I wasn't alone anymore but I was better than them and I didn't need this shit. So after two nights I checked out. ..46 days ago I was on my way to the bar. 4 days sober was enough and it was Friday after all. My boss said I could take up to 12 weeks of FMLA so I had plenty of time to get this shit under control. I saw a bunch of people smoking outside of a building next to my local bar and knew right away what it was. I thought "this is a great opportunity to go see how stupid Alcoholics Anonymous is so I can have a good excuse to drink again. It's an hour of my life and then I can justify going to the bar because this didn't work". I walked in and immediately felt at home. I felt better than I ever had walking into a bar full of friends. Nobody wanted anything from me though so something was up. Something was up! Once again I found myself in a room of random people that were walking and talking mirror images of me. People who had lost relationships jobs money dignity and the real them. But they were fucking happy! What? ..In the last 46 days I kept going back to that room with the happy people. Every day. I've met people that have genuinely and permanently changed my life. I've taken control of that person that was killing the real me and parted ways with him. I feel again. Not always good but it's real. That smile you see now is the most genuine smile you've ever fucking seen in your life. That fear and that loneliness that was so real and consumed my days has become something that pops up only once in a while and doesn't have the power to drive me and my decisions any longer. ..In the last 24 hours I've lived another day of life. A life I cherish and respect. A life no longer fueled by fear and numbness. A life that's a constant work in progress rather that a constant dismantlement. ..I didn't write this for well wishes or attaboys. I didn't write this to tell you to stop drinking. I wrote this because it's uncomfortable and my life was in shambles and because if anyone who actually reads this crazy rambling is struggling with something - anything - in their lives maybe these words will help them find the motivation to change their lives and the willingness to take life back. ..PM_me_your_jeep Alcoholic
----------immediate responses--------

This really convinced me to get to a meeting. ..I've been putting it off for a long time. I'm finally a week sober for the first time in 9 years.   ..I feel like I'm losing my mind watching my SO drink himself to death and look at *me* with pity because I'm 'miserable and sober'. Pfft I'm going to a meeting tomorrow to be around some people who understand for once.
Thanks for the ramble.  Enjoyable to read.  I'm sitting here trying to say something inspirational back at you but you've said it all.
Keep up the good fight mate. I'm on my 4th year in AA and have stayed sober that long by going to meetings doing the steps and keeping up with my sponsor. It saves my life every day. Good luck!
Thanks for sharing.
