-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/4y2jqs/8_years_to_relapse/

I finally did it.  Probably planning it for years.  A "good" reason came up and I did it.  Quit drinking April 1 2008.  I was back in the same town where I had my last drink 8 years ago for a rock show.  I pissed my girlfriend off over a stupid nothing that was my fault and she left.  I went down stairs walked past the free wine looked back walked over and had one.  I said to myself I'm getting fucked up tonight."..Went to the show by myself made some fast friends.  Fast forward 10 hours.  Spent $500 on alcohol for me and my "friends" probably had about 12-15 drinks after 8 years abstaining.  Coke and weed busted out on my hotel desk which I have a faint memory of doing and some hanger-on dude sleeping in the chair of my room.  Me still drunk with remorse setting in more every hour as the drunk wears off...It took one night hell less than 12 hours to do ALL of the fucked up shit I did to get me to stop drinking.  I'm a professional now thanks to sobriety.  I risked my livelihood my relationships my whole new identity for one night...So - I cleaned everything up got rid of the guy in my room as politely as possible in case he has pictures and I made my escape.  I called my girlfriend who is sober on the ride home and confessed everything that may or may not be over...Here I am a newcomer again.  Sobriety date of Aug. 14 2016...So there's supposed to be a lesson in this.  I will never be cured.  Over the years I forgot why I quit and convinced myself that I could be different.  There is a version of me that is violent impulsive and self-destructive and the key to his cage is the first drink.  if he gets out again there's a good chance he will take me to prison with him...
----------immediate responses--------

I'm glad to see that the version of you who wrote this post appears to have a much louder voice than the version of you got out for a night.  ..Knowing he's there is half the battle...Well done mate - you pulled yourself back from the brink.  .It was worth it: you're here you're sober and you're not in prison. 
Welcome to the retreads club!..Suggestion: start in with the things that work and become educated on the signs of relapse...Good luck and remember: Keep coming back!
Keep going to meetings and please share this story is helping me right now and I know you can help countless others. Thank you for sharing btw.
It's ok man really. Thanks for sharing this I needed to read it. 
There isn't more definitive proof that Step One is 100% correct and we are completely powerless
Glad you got back in so quickly.  I relapsed once with one drink then two drinks.  It doesn't take any quantity at all to be considered a relapse but I think getting back in quickly is something to be proud of.   I've never been able to drink like other people; I just thought I could so time outside AA isn't as attractive as it used to be.  I hope that in 4 more years I feel the same- I have almost 4 yrs in AA since my relapse.  Good luck with it.  I think people who relapse have a lot of experience strength and hope to share with others.
A day at a time. That's all we can have. We can cash in all our chips on one drink. Going to meetings calling my sponsor and doing the deal (12 steps) is the way I stay sober. You can too. You still learned a ton all is not lost. You just did a little research and realized it wasn't for you. 
Usually  those that Go Out after a period of sobriety realize they never really had a PROGRAM to begin with. If I am following the program closely (thoroughly following) then before I am "halfway through" the steps I will be recovered. If I don't continue this I'm not doing the Program any longer. "Particularly was it imperative to work with others as he had worked with me. Faith without works was dead he said. And how appallingly true for the alcoholic! For if an alcoholic failed to perfect and enlarge his spiritual life through work and self-sacrifice for others he could not survive the certain trials and low spots ahead. If he did not work he would surely drink again..."
This is very helpful to me. Thank you for sharing.
Welcome back it's good to know the things that you learned from this. A guy in our group came back after being sober almost 8 years worrying about looking bad. I told him no one could possibly look good in this situation and the pressure was entirely off him to do so. That seemed to help him relax. We worked through his steps a bit deeper than he'd done earlier and he's still sober and active 20+ years later. Wife and career changed early on from lawyer to teaching disabled kids...he's had great life. Had he not screwed up he may have missed it and settled for less...You may have improved your future by this time will tell.
If nothing else I hope you realize that I am right here on day one with you. Really trying to button it all up and put it behind me. Never really had any support so I figured I would try here 
Can I ask a favor? Could you PLEASE repost this over at r/stopdrinking?  ..There's a lot of new people over there that need to hear this.  ..I thank you from the bottom of my heart for having the courage to post this. It reminds me that I must remain vigilant if I am to survive. I have 3.5 years in and this post just bought me a few more days maybe more. Thanks again.
This story is helping me to. I have a dark side that comes out when I drink. Today is my first day sober. Attended an AA meeting tonight. I need help for sure I am an alcoholic.
