-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/4y2kqz/higher_power_problem_in_aa/

Thank God I never struggled with the God thing in AA.  I was listening to a Thich Nhat Hahn video "Awakening to your joy."  He mentioned an atheist French author and philosopher named Andre Gide who defined God as Truth and Happiness.  Thay is a Buddhist monk and zen master who is also atheist but  extremely spiritual.  He also talks a lot about the Kingdom of God without conflict.  I got to thinking about Truth and Happiness as a power greater than ourselves that could restore us to sanity.  The more I think about it the more it fits for me.  You know "the truth will set you free."  "This Naked Mind" talks a lot about accepting truth at the subconscious level.  Another definition that might be unobjectionable to atheists is God is Love.  Or best of all God is Truth Love and Happiness.  Are truth love and happiness a power sufficient to bring about the personality change necessary to recover from alcoholism?  What do you think about this conception of a higher power for those who find more traditional religious conceptions to be an impediment?
----------immediate responses--------

I like the concept of God as we understand him. We have several atheists in our group and one has an interesting concept her higher power is love happiness and truth  the idea of these concepts gave her a higher power its interesting I enjoy talking to her
You have to go through a lot of soul searching gut-level honesty to get you through all 12 steps- so it requires whatever is meaningful to you powerful enough to be more powerful than yourself and also strong enough to do the work. Truth Love and Happiness sounds like a pink cloud concept and could excuse you from doing the work.  Lots of people can at least stay sober on their pink clouds though- so it's an individual decision. I believe atheists come to a variety of decisions regarding their Higher Power.  It might be at least a place to start.
                 
I discounted the idea of God around about the age of 5. I thought it was all a load of nonsense and from that point on all the way up to the age of 41 when I had my last drink I lived a life of total self-reliance. To say I struggled with the "God thing in AA" for the last eight years of my drinking is a bit of an understatement...But at the age of 41 after drinking alcoholically for 23 years it was plain to see that By a life based solely on self-reliance had been far from successful...Eventually I saw words in italics "as we understood Him" in step 3 and that gave me permission to think of God in any way that I want - so long as it's not a "human power" then anything goes in AA.  I don't have to subscribe to any religious doctrines or beliefs I'm quite free to believe that heaven is a place on earth just as hell is and that there is no afterlife. My beliefs exclude me from Christianity but not from spirituality. I've got a more grown up interpretation of God now. Back when I was 5 I didn't know anything about metaphors parables and analogies. There's a great book by a guy called Emmet Fox ["Diagrams for Living"](https://www.amazon.com/Diagrams-Living-Bible-Unveiled-emmet/dp/0060628510) which helped me realise that the Bible wasn't meant to be taken literally. A lot of the AA pioneers especially those in New York subscribed to Fox's ideas. ..What makes me an atheist is that I believe that God is a concept invented by humans rather than the other way round. But that doesn't mean I don't have faith in a power greater than myself or that I can't call it God and pray to it because I do.  Praying for knowledge of God's will for me and the power to carry it out works just as well for me as my more religious friends. I pray everyday and hang around churches a lot - does that make me religious? Well if it does then I'm a religious atheist. You see labels don't really matter. What matters is that I'm honest and open minded and willing to change for the better...A wise old friend of mine once said "AA works for people who believe in God people who don't believe in God and people who think they are God" - and believe you me I have seen all three types of people recover and live long and happy and useful sober lives...The key to recovery for me is to "quit playing God" once I started doing that miracles began to happen...
I still think it's all a bit ridiculous. Why can't I just believe in the power of positivity not think of it as a "higher power" not call it God whatever that means and stop capitalizing all references to it? Also as we understand Him? Are we anthropomorphizing things now for what reason? ..No I'm just gonna accept that the whole point is because most people believe in an omnipotent god being therefore AA was basically founded with that belief being held. ..And honestly I'm totally ok with pandering to the largest crowd for now because that's probably very effective and this controversy or whatever you wanna call it is absolutely nothing compared to the scourge of alcoholism. I'm just gonna think of AA as a mildly poorly conceived organization from an atheist's perspective for the modern world and go about my day and continue going anyway...Also if you wanna think of it that way then all power to you. I hope it helps in your recovery frankly because it isn't hurting anyone.
I got a copy of his book "The Little Book of Atheist Spirituality" in treatment ..I like it a lot..I struggle with the concept of God as "the great puppet master" but I definitely agree that spirituality is separate from organized religion..I try to live by the basic spiritual principles. My higher power right now is the collective conscious. That universal sense of right and wrong. We're not taught it. It's the little voice in the back of my head or the twist in my gut when I'm doing something wrong. You even see it observing animals cooperate in nature ..That natural way of being. Without the judgments self consciousness and ego....because I feel that those are man made. We've developed them over time as a side effect of our culture (western capitalist culture specifically with its emphasis on competition and being "the best" vs cooperation and kindness)...I'm trying to not let my brain out think that voice 
