-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/4z3q74/here_is_a_doozie_for_you/

So i've been going to AA since January 2nd. I find it helpful - but i am more "monitoring" than really participating.  No sponsor. Don't speak in meetings haven't gotten a SINGLE phone number.  I always hear at least one thing that I take with me - however i know that i need to get deeper in to really progress on my journey.  I go to a big co ed mid day meeting.  One day a woman i know - not from AA - walks in.  I HATE her.  I have very very good reason not to trust her.  A REALLY good reason.  It was a Friday.  I've never been back to a Friday meeting there.  .Recently i've been struggling.  And sure enough who walks into my Thursday meeting - but untrustworthy lady.   I got up and left.  I left because what should be the safest place on earth with her there turns incredibly unsafe for me.  So i was "talking" to my higher power saying "why would you put her in my path of recovery?!!!!!"  "why would you let her of all people come into my safe place."  I was pissed.  The other night lying in bed unable to sleep - i finally was quiet enough to hear the answer.  I need to change meetings.  The "voice" was clear.  While I like this meeting - it is too big so big  i can stay silent.  I don't have to be noticed.  If I am going to get all the things i want and know i need (sponsor network etc) I need a smaller group setting. I literally laughed out loud.  I haven't found that new meeting/group yet - but at least I know what i'm looking for.  I will not drink today - even though I really hate that lady!!!!.
----------immediate responses--------

"Hate" is a pretty strong word. Not trusting is one thing but "hate"? ..&gt;When the student is ready;..&gt;The teacher appears. 
Very cool!
I love this! Things I don't like or am uncomfortable with always end up serving or teaching me something. My higher power knows better than me but I forget that sometimes. :)
Yeah HP!!  many times I'm willing to talk to my HP but like you I forget or don't truly listen to my HP.  Meditation really helps with this.  .you've got me curious though.  if I might ask why do you hate her and not trust her?
Sounds like your hate for that woman is ruling at least part of your life. Would you be okay with not hating her someday? That is a part of what the steps and spirituality are about to me.
http://i0.kym-cdn.com/photos/images/newsfeed/000/154/912/berneydidnotread.gif
Don't let anyone run you out of a meeting. Presumably that lady is there for the same reason as you to recover from a fatal disease. Principles before personalities. Also I caution you against believing you understand HP's will for you before you've even worked steps or gotten a sponsor. Sounds like you're still being driven by fear and self-will to me. The thing about geographic changes is that no matter where you go there you are. Just saying. 
Of course your struggling. Your sitting in an AA meeting without understanding the PROGRAM. Without working the actual program there is no recovery from your madness and your thinking. If you are an alcoholic going to meetings without working the program is pointless. Changing meetings won't help. Meetings are NOT the program. My suggestion? Go to a meeting (that one you think you need to change is probably where you need to stay) Share. Raise your hand introduce yourself. Tell the group you're looking for a sponsor. The Sponsor can show you how to do the PROGRAM. 
I'm smiling!! 
