-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/4zpk8p/82_days_young/

Hey girls and boys. ..Used to be a huge fan of the Opiates sub so am amused that I can use this same website to address my recovery. ..I'm a 27 year old dude been in and out of the rooms for about a year and a half. Never strung together more than 100 days- I lied about being sober came to meetings high praying nobody would look at my pinpoint pupils shrugging off dinner plans and regular phone calls...My last relapse took me to the very fringes of sanity. I was dating someone else's girlfriend. Every friend (at least the ones whom I tried to stay in touch with) kept me at arm's length and didn't believe a word I said. ..I was a liar and a charlatan. At any given time the last three texts in my phone were all to middlemen and dealers. The rest looked something like: "?" "Are you ok???" because I was hiding. ..Sometimes real life is too bright the high wattage bulbs of public and social scrutiny make me want to call an Uber cop go home and crawl into bed. The idea that my actions have consequences was too real for me- I understood that concept abstractly but truly? I never held myself responsible. ..AA tells me that I'm not a bad guy- that my patterns of behavior stem from character defects. The same defects I tried blotting out with heroin and amphetamine. Personally I am skeptical...I'm about 95% done with my 4th step. Everything's organized in a binder with tabs and sections. Would be done sooner but my sponsor is overseas for work until next Thursday. ..So here I am armed with an entire novel on my resentments fears sex life and many many harms. It's terrible writing the biography of a complete asshole. My mind races- will I ever stop doing these things?..I violated so many boundaries of trust stepped on friendships and people I loved. Some are very powerful people who could ruin my life. Every day I live steeped in shame not wanting to get out of bed and pretend all of a sudden I'm a good person...Who else steals lies and cheats people they love? Over and over and over. A sociopath?.."What a cute sob story" you must be thinking. "He's spiritually sick he needs to do his 5th step" maybe. ..I know that time takes time. .I know that these feelings are natural..I know I can't do a thing about them...But fuck me....Anyway hi! I really like this sub....A...
----------immediate responses--------

Just saying hi!
&gt; Who else steals lies and cheats people they love? Over and over and over. A sociopath?..An alcoholic/addict - you're in the right place!
Awesome I went to a big book meeting last night stayed sober and cleanand today I'm not going to drink or drug. How about you? 
Hi there thanks for posting this. I'm at 84 days and working on my 4th step too. Realizing that I had a huge part in all the messed up parts of my life is a bitter pill to swallow. Saying some of the things out loud to my sponsor made my heart sink deep into my chest. Not sure if this helps but you're not the only one feeling this. ..You're not a bad guy. You are a human being with imperfections just like every other damn person on this planet. You actually have the courage to look at those imperfections and come to honest terms about them. Dude that takes balls...Ps I love how you've organized with a binder! I did an Excel spreadsheet :)
