-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/4zr40n/need_advice_please/

Hi all I am currently sponsoring someone and they have cancelled once and relapsed twice before we have even begun the steps. I don't want to 'give up' on this person but I'm unsure how to deal with someone who really isn't 'done'. Any experience would be greatly appreciated. 
----------immediate responses--------

I think you will find the answer in Chapter 7 Working with Others.  That may seem like a flippant answer and I apologize but when working with others I try to follow the outline contained in that chapter.  A careful read should be a good guide what to do...I have worked with some who are not done and I am perfectly fine if they want to do more research.  If they haven't even got Step 1 I am not going to push 11 more steps on them.  I've let a few know that when they have had enough I will still be around if they need.  Other than that they are in God's hands not mine...EDIT - spelling
You know that part of the Serenity prayer about the "Things I cannot change?" All your help and willingness to work with this person will not be fruitful until they are willing to change. Just make yourself available when they are ready...
Thank You both that really helps. I will have a read and then I'll pray! Much love in the fellowship x
We can't force anyone to change. Work with those who are ready.
If I am convinced that no human power could have relieved my alcoholism I am humbled in my role as sponsor.  I'm no longer the Director someone else is in charge and the best I can do is be available and ready to serve when my sponsee acquires a desire to stop drinking.
One approach I've taken when I've had sponsees in a similar pattern is to talk to them during a moment of clarity and say "the good news is that you never actually took the first step." I go on to explain that if he took the first step and then relapsed I'd be a lot more concerned but in the absence of step one its predictable that he drank. This lends itself to a discussion about "what are you going to do differently" and if the sponsee is ready to a commitment coming from him to actually work step one. 
Don't give up...It's difficult to see that but don't give up. Remember that it works and sometimes you have to push it....I got my 30 day chip last week and it still frightens me that I did. 30 days 100% sober I haven't done that in years and good Christ it took some fighting...Don't give up. Keep fighting
I suggest reading page 96 of the big book. 
Let them call or seek you out don't chase them. We're not against anyone's drinking if that's what they want to do...Until they are willing to talk to you before they drink they haven't the minimum level of willingness to proceed. Accept that and let them do what they need to do to get ready even if that involves trying to modify their drinking with light-weight AA participation.
Let them come to you on their own time. They must be willing to go to any lengths. You have to remember that until they are willing it is completely out of your hands. 
Sponsorship is not ownership and we should probably be talking about friendship and leadership. ..An alcoholic in his cups will only take motivation from alcohol and all I can do is be the example of sobriety that may inspire if I'm attractive...Someone who hasn't developed a desire to stop drinking will continue to drink if they are an alcoholic. That's the way it was for me and I don't have the power to stand in anyone else's way of experiencing the exact same thing.
They have to want it. Let them get beat up by the disease. 
