-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/51dkid/any_nonchristians/

I think I really do need something like AA but in reading the literature I do tend to find all the spiritual and religious aspects to be a sort of mental hurdle for me to get on board with...I'm Catholic but I'm struggling to get over the spiritual language used...I'm curious... Are there any AA members here who are either not religious or have a different belief system that have managed to get past this idea? Can you help me?
----------immediate responses--------

It has been my experience that most AA people are spiritual but not specifically religious and there are a lot of Jews atheists agnostics and others.  If it helps think of GOD as good orderly direction and do not worry about the divinity aspect.
Yes I am non-religious. I know many others that are non-religious as well. AA has no religious affiliation. You should read chapter 4 "We Agnostics". They address this issue pretty directly. Step 2 from the 12 Steps and 12 Traditions is also very helpful with this. Essentially the "Thy"s and "Thou"s and use of the terms "God" and "Higher Power" are a simple means of getting across the idea of "a power greater than yourself" or "God of your understanding". If I remember correctly something to that effect is explicitly said in "We Agnostics"...In short don't worry about it. Another thing from "We Agnostics" is that we only need a *willingness* to believe in something in order to start getting results. You don't have to be firm in your belief or even define what it is. They left it very open ended.
Yes I'm non religious and I was also very skeptical of what I considered to be the religious aspects of AA before I got sober. ..What I believe after attending a lot of different meetings (I've been sober 7 years) is that the founders of AA sincerely thought that seeking a spiritual life was critical but that religion wasn't. I've met 100s of non Christian people in AA including atheists and agnostics that have gotten and stayed sober. ..Having said that different meetings may have a slightly different flavor of AA - some tend more explicitly religious (even though the AA founders were specific about being open to all faiths and to atheists as well). All that means is that you may benefit by trying several different meetings. ..You might also want to post your city/state here and ask someone to direct you to a meeting that's less explicitly religious. Your local AA central office is also probably staffed with volunteers that could help you find the right meeting for your needs/interests. ..Best of luck on your journey friend!
I don't practice any sort of religion and when I came in back in 2009 I was an "athiest" and hated God the idea of God and wouldn't even say "God" out loud. I read We Agnostics and it opened my mind a little bit but it wasn't until an old timer heard me rambling about my issues with the God thing and he asked me "Kid how can you be so angry at something you don't even believe in?". Mind = blown. I think that was the first day I actually got out of my own way started putting one foot in front of the other and let things take place in front of me. Try reading We Agnostics again highlight or underline the parts that resonate with you and then share those parts with someone and ask what their experience was! I'd be happy to chat any time if you'd like to send me a message. 
Check out http://aaagnostica.org..My home group is an atheist agnostic and all others meeting. Maybe there's one in your area. I've met a lot of atheists and agnostics who have long-term sobriety...Edit: These books have been very helpful too:.The Alternative 12 Steps: A Secular Guide To Recovery https://www.amazon.com/dp/0991717465/ref=cm_sw_r_cp_api_CASZxbMEEPTBT.and.Beyond Belief: Agnostic Musings for 12 Step Life: finally a daily reflection book for nonbelievers freethinkers and everyone https://www.amazon.com/dp/0988115700/ref=cm_sw_r_cp_api_2BSZxbWN3C3RQ
I'm jewish. Ultra-orthodox..It's more related to the traditions: "No A.A. group or member should ever in such a way as to implicate A.A. express any opinion on outside controversial issues   particularly those of politics alcohol reform or sectarian religion. The Alcoholics Anonymous groups oppose no one. Concerning such matters they can express no views whatever."..I am not on AA but on SA which is kind of duplicated program with different addiction. Where I come from we are very scared from implementing our religious ideas inside the program and our steps journey. Most of us tried already all the religious methods to stop with our bad habits and we all can see how it really didn't work. The problem wasn't on the religious methods but on our attitude and the steps help us change our attitude to go-d and to the world. Hence I don't find a *religious* side but a *spiritual* side of the program. It's universal to any addict from any religous background and connects me to our primary purpose - "to carry its message to the alcoholic who still suffers." ANY alcoholic who still suffers.
I am an atheist in AA and NA.  ..My higher power is my sponsor and the people in the rooms with more sober time than I have...There are typically 2 prayers used in meetings - the Serenity Prayer (which I love I usually just omit the "God" part at the beginning) and The Lords Prayer (which I don't say but I do participate in the hand holding and feeling of togetherness it gives me)....
[deleted]
Another non-religious neo-pagan eastern mysticism-oriented alcoholic here. I really wish my early AA exposure had not been in Texas where every drunken cowboy and his horse are washed by the blood of Jesus. And I could really do without the Lord's Prayer being used to close the majority of meetings...But even so I'm finding AA very helpful right now.
Yes. I'm a lapsed catholic current atheist and found a lot of help at AA meetings and in AA literature. In fact I realized my atheism while attending AA and it didn't prevent me from taking advantage...As long as you can accept that other people have religious faith then it's not a big deal. ..I did find a little mental substitution helpful. Instead of "faith" I think "trust". Instead of "higher power" I think "greater power". (Higher power to me is a dude with a white beard sitting on a cloud but I can fully accept that there are greater powers than me. Such as gravity and time.)..FWIW I consider sobriety itself my ~~higher~~ greater power.  
i feel like the amount i notice how "christian" aa is depends on how irritable i'm feeling.  when i'm not in the mood aa feels like "the christian fellowship that refuses to call itself a christian fellowship".  other days i notice that when i'm on the beam i just don't give a shit whether people have that sort of attitude that God is a "yet" and that sooner or later EVERYONE comes around to it.  I just enjoy the whole gestalt of AA.  But yeah.  It does take mental effort to deflect all the christian overtones some days.  .
Buddhist here essentially atheist with boatloads of spirituality.  AA was no problem for me.  I find my higher power that can restore me to sanity to be love tolerance and truth. The fact others call theirs God doesn't trouble me and is really none of my business.
Reading through the comments it looks like you're not alone. :)..Another idea... it's through being cracked open and broken that the sunlight of the spirit can filter in. For me "god" is the word I use for my *experience* of spirituality. That expansive feeling in my chest it's undeniable so that's god and that has worked for me so far...I love We Agnostics as well.
Yep. Came into the program an atheist and had a bit of trouble wrapping my head around "The God Thing". I also know quite a few individuals from a variety of different religious backgrounds in AA.  ..For me the "spiritual but not religious" thing boils down to this. I try to live my life by spiritual principles...which I found in the Wikipedia article on spirituality:  ..- "Secular spirituality emphasizes humanistic ideas on moral character (qualities such as love compassion patience tolerance forgiveness contentment responsibility harmony and a concern for others)."  ..And as far as my atheism goes I am still unwilling to [worship](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fINh4SsOyBw) any Gods and the "God of my understanding" doesn't require it.
Discordian and sober here.  I'm just making sure we have as many non-christian bases covered as possible.
I grew up Catholic but never grasped faith.  As an adult I struggle with the spiritual language used so right now I focus on a broad range of sobriety program work not just AA.  But I have found a secular AA meeting which is nice...Take what helps you leave the rest...
"God" was a MAJOR hurdle for me. I am 3.5 years sober - and I came to believe in a higher power. For me it was the people that kept saying the group was their higher power. My first foray into understanding was realizing that there was something that happened in my home group that was bigger than just me. In that way I was able to see it as a "higher" power than just myself. I go into meetings feeling rotten and selfish A LOT. After listening sharing etc. I feel better and more hopeful about my life and my sobriety. I cannot explain why that happens - it is out of my realm of understanding. It is that "higher power" I think of every time God is mentioned here or there. I trust in that higher power to lead the way knowing that when I try to lead my own way I end up in the ditch. Good luck to you! If it really is a struggle - 4th step inventory sheets can help a ton - just write it all out! 
My homegroup had 2 xtians. They rarely talked about their belief because no one else cares what anyone does or doesn't believe. The more self-centered newcomers want to tell everyone but they get wise after a while and keep the specifics to themselves. I still don't know what my sponsor (44 years sober) believes after talking with him over the last 34 years...I suspect he's never going to say what that is. Because our beliefs only impact ourselves...
Yup. I don't practice or believe in religion. AA and its Book has taught me how to tap into the Great Power that runs my current dimension. I do use prayer and meditation greatly. And I do written inventory and try to help others as much as possible. To me this is a way of life thru action and not a religion.  
