-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/51dwop/wife_fell_off_the_wagon_again/

Guess I just need to vent. Wife has struggled with alcoholism for years but she had been clean for 3+ years. She has suffered through depression and anxiety for years before alcoholism as well and had recently switched her anti depressant medication. This was Tuesday of last week. I was away visiting my ailing grandfather who lives in a different state and I suspected something odd then. Tuesday Wednesday Thursday our phone conversations get shorter and shorter which is odd because she's super chatty on the phone normally and I have to tell her goodbye about 30 times before she can actually hang up. ..Confronted her on Thursday on the phone about it she says it's the new meds. I'm inclined to believe her because she had gastric bypass surgery back in 2009 and ever since then her medication absorption is finicky. This wouldn't be the first time she had had a medication do something weird to her. A different medication once caused seizures(it was a known side effect but extremely rare. So much so that it wasn't listed and the pharmacist had to dig to find the warning of possible seizures in the side effect list cause he had never seen it happen for this particular med). ..Anyway I tell her to stop taking that med cause it's turning her into a zombie. Friday she's "tired" all day and slurring her words not a drunken slur but a genuine tired slur. I suspect the meds hadn't cleared out of her system yet. Saturday I fly back home she picks me up from the airport and she's still "tired" and has me drive home. She starts nodding off at her desk I take her to bed thinking long day long week first time I've been away from home for awhile and she had 3 kids tiring her out. Sunday: same thing. ..Tonight I went to bed early and she stumbles into the bedroom and lays sideways across the bed pushing me cause I had accidentally draped myself over her side of the bed. I moved and she laid down upside down on the bed and diagonally. I get up to go to the bathroom since she had woken me up and she was acting way more "tired" than the previous nights. Words incoherent and slurred. I ask if she's been drinking again. Her reply: "a bit"..I get up and dig around the house found a fifth of Grey Goose damn near drained. Dig through the trash found various bottles of alcohol everywhere. Vodka and wine are her drinks of choice. She had to have been drinking for a week and I should have known. ..This is a danger to our kids. I can't take this shit anymore. Every time it happens I think about what this does to our kids and I don't know that I can keep taking this risk even if she's been clean for awhile before this a small trigger and she's what driving my 3 year old to daycare drunk? Sleeping all day while I'm at work? Sneaking around alcohol and lying about it? Is there a support group for husbands of alcoholics? I'm just lost I don't even know what to do anymore  ..Edit: I'm not an alcoholic nor have I ever been. I had previously drank with her but it was rare/recreational and sparse and wasn't an alcoholism problem until after she had her gastric bypass surgery and lost a ton of weight then she drank to blackout multiple times. We confronted her alcoholism / wine obsession and never stored alcohol in the house afterwards but it took years of there being a problem and us denying that she was an alcoholic relapses here and there then a few more relapses under the guise of "I can control it" or allowing her only to drink with me or whatever other excuse myself or she could come up with until the last relapse where we swore to never do it again.
----------immediate responses--------

1. NEVER tell a person to stop taking their meds.  Ask them to call their doctor for advice if you feel the meds are off..2. Attend Alanon.
I'm so sorry for what you are going through - alcoholism is such an awful disease...In answer to your question yes there is amazing support available to spouses of alcoholics. One great program is called alanon. You can get good support there on your (understandable) anger and on what to do from here. ..I wish you well friend. 
I am so sorry you are going through this and thank you for reaching out and not just writing your wife off. I know her behavior is incomprehensible even infuriating. It very likely is it to her as well...I do urge you to get in touch with a local Alanon group (and/or check out online groups or here on Reddit). ..Has your wife been to formal rehab? Especially with her mental health I think she would benefit from comprehensive clinical care. You alone cannot provide that to her nor should you be expected to. ..My partner and I went through years of me drinking trying to stop gradually sneaking again hiding bottles etc etc. I went to rehab still trying to figure out how to best care for my mental health but I have been sober now for over a year and a half. ..Your anger and frustration with your wife is understandable but please do try to understand-- she is very very sick. But she can get better! Hope is not lost...I sincerely wish you both the best and I hope that you both find the support that you need.
Not knowing what program she was on successfully for the years before her relapse I'd say encourage her to get back into one. There is AA SMART Recovery and more.  Both have a means of support for family and friends. ..She still has the skills she gained in that window of sobriety and with your support she can get back to it. ..Have her see her doctor about the meds.  She needs to be proactive on that herself. When she is not feeling they are working she needs to talk to her doctor. She shouldn't just stop taking them. ..Best of luck to you and your family.  I was never a driver when drunk I understand your feelings about the risks she exposed your kids too.  ..You may also want to check out /r/stopdrinking and /r/askstopdrinking for other resources.  I have found that a program with depth and options gives me the best chance because there is tons of support tons of ideas and a millions things to help when I have urges. ..
I went to Alanon meetings a support group for friends and family of alcoholics. See /r/Alanon. I found answers to questions and learned I cannot control another person. Please get support for yourself. 
That sucks sorry man. I hear good things about Alanon although I have never been. It really is difficult to watch someone else struggle and as hard as it is I know that this is part of the "out of my control" portion of my life. 
