-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/51pljh/im_an_alcoholic_and_evidently_so_is_my_new_boss/

Hello My name is putaquarterinyourass and I'm an alcoholic.  ..So I just moved across the country recently and started a new job. I have a nice wonderful family (Wife Kids Dog).  I drink a lot.  I hide my heavy drinking and mask it with beer.  No one is the wiser. ..I drink about a fifth of vodka a day.  Sometime less. Sometimes more.  I'm not violent but I get tired easily and can feel the longterm physical influence that his has been taxing on my body.  I've been doing this for about 10 years now.  I have slowly but surely worked my way up to this point. I've learned that I like to "maintain" a buzz. So I do maintenance drinking...I did attend meetings at my prior location but not regularly.  I tried to go to as many as I could but I just could not do that with my work schedule.  However I have the blue book and I have read about 1/3 of it.  After some time I could not bring myself to complete step #4 which seems like a very difficult step to accomplish!..So I wanted to try here in a new setting since it is a new job and location and I thought it would be nice to start over. I live in a rather large metropolitan area.  I now work for a rather large institution.  I chose to go to a meeting yesterday for the first time here somewhere not too close to home but on the way to work. I was greeted warmly as I always am when I go to a new meeting place by all of the well wishing folks who are also struggling with my addiction.  I was taken into THE room as is custom and we met with  each other for the first time.  We all told our stories and whatnot and talked for about an hour. It was a real nice experience...I decided to go back today before work.  I walked in. Was greeted by some of the folk that I met with yesterday. Sat down.  Had a cup of bad coffee.  Then my boss (my NEW BOSS) came in.  He was the speaker for the day.  I almost shit myself and I think he did too when he noticed me...Let's back up for a sec.  I just recently took this position and was hired along with a group of other new hires.  When we were all hired he had thrown a welcome party for all of us.  Drinks food music all fun stuff.  I played it cool and stuck too beer and water but everyone got hammered.  I (we I was with my family) left early and he seemed pretty drunk and it was clear as he was doing shots and drinking wine (not a great combo but who am I to judge).  ..So there I was sitting at an AA meeting with my very new boss who obviously knows about my situation and I know about his. Then I went off to work...The current work setting is odd.  I don't actually interact with him personally on a daily basis.  So I didn't actually see him today. However I do have a meeting with him tomorrow. At Noon.  High Noon.  And I've been drinking tonight. A Lot.  Super nervous and have lost some faith in the AA system.  Any advice would be helpful and greatly appreciated...BTW I am a long time lurker and this is my first reddit post.  I never had a reason to ask for advice from reddit until now.  Also am in need of help on how to quit now.  I just want to quit.. 
----------immediate responses--------

Not sure I read that write but "he seemed pretty drunk and it was clear as he was doing shots and drinking wine..." And "He was speaker for the day" ?? Unless it's a really sketchy meeting/group then people are not asked to speak if they are still drinking or have only just stopped or relapsed. So he's either lying to everyone in AA or that group you went to doesn't give a damn about the welfare of it's members. Either way I would be looking for a different group to go to...It strikes me that the odds that your boss will show for your meeting tomorrow are pretty low. The odds that you'll be getting a new boss soon are very high...Stopping drinking is not about your boss it's about you. If you want to stop keep going back to meetings - try lots of other meetings in your area. What your boss does is up to him it's not your responsibility or your business what he does.
Wow.  That's a doozy. ...Best case scenario is this situation causes you both to talk honestly reflect get sober and form a supportive bond.  .....
I agree with u/king_baby.If you want to quit then you need to focus on you not your boss. I felt so much freedom after taking my first 4th step. There is a reason it is highly suggested I did not know what was going on inside my brain until I wrote it all down and could see it before my eyes. I hope the same happens for you.
Your boss has as much to lose as you do - so I wouldn't worry too much about the job...I am concerned about the meetings your going to though - a speaker shouldn't be active.  I hope he was honest in his account of "what happened" and "how it is now" for his own sake.  I highly suggest you check out a few other meetings in town...
Damn that's a tough one. I have 3.5 years and I don't know for certain how I would handle it...As I see it you have 3 responsibilities here. To yourself to your boss and to AA as a whole. To guard your own recovery I would keep this under my hat for now and once I found a sponsor I would discuss this with them leaving all names out of it...Face it the guy knows he's busted and is probably wondering what you are going to do with this knowledge. I would be very cautious and discreet. Remember if you blab this secret from the rooftops other people will be less likely to trust you with their own secrets...He's also probably scared that you will use this leverage against him blackmailing him in AA at work or both. For the sake of your employment you need to approach him and settle his mind on this issue otherwise you risk having him enact a pre-emptive strike based on this fear...Probably the best approach would be to ask him to meet you for a conversation away from both work and AA. At this conversation see if you can get his sponsor's name. Mention that you have concerns that he is being dishonest within the context of the program and encourage him to discuss the issue with his sponsor...In any event you're in a tough spot. As tough as it is for even an experienced AA you're going to have to avoid falling into judgement or condemnation of his actions -- we call this "taking someone else's inventory". ..At my home group we have a saying: " You can learn 2 things from alcoholics. What to do and what NOT to do."..Guess which one this guy just taught you...
19 months one day at a time here. This 3 year old has taught me a lot [advice](https://youtu.be/4A6Bu96ALOw)
If he is real AA then he takes the "anonymous" party very seriously. That being said if it is too much discomfort there are too many meetings to ever feel "bad" about one - I would just find another meeting. Most importantly though if he is following the 12 traditions then knowing you from the "outside" shouldn't be an issue. I know how uncomfortable that is though!
I would recommend that you work your own program and let the boss work theirs. If you both respect the tradition of anonymity it should not be a problem. And/or find another group.
