-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/52ltlx/got_annoyed_at_members_comment_last_night/

Last night a few people had relapsed and we're coming back. This young kid said I probly never have to relapse because others are doing it for me . I thought it was a harsh comment and annoyed me what do you think
----------immediate responses--------

The kid is fresh. Take what you want from the meeting and leave everything else there. When someone says something to me like that the st. Francis prayer of "seek to understand than to be understood" helps a lot. Sounds like he struck a cord with you. Do an inventory on that and let go. 
I read it as he's learning the lesson the easy way instead of the hard way...He can see how bad going back out is so he doesn't have to try it himself.  
There is a regular attendee at a Monday night meeting I attend who said something similar a while back along with some other really weird/hateful things (in my opinion). Every time this woman raises her hand to comment I cringe. ..I have to pray "Bless her change me" *every single time*. This woman is clearly sick and I can't fault her for it. I am just as sick. But I have to do the work not her. 
I've heard way more outlandish comments then this..In a weird way he is right though. If other are relapsing around him (and he has had nothing to do with it) He can be effectively learning what he needs to do to not follow their path. Weirdly in my meetings when relapse of a friend is brought up...Similar statements of "better him then you" are said in one way or another..When people lapse around me I have a similar feeling that their relapse is one more reason I shouldn't go that path..It took me well over 200 meetings to learn that even though someone might say something fucked up or something I don't agree with They are still sober. If what they do and says works for them I'm not about to let a resentment take me back out.
Just goes to show that you can't mix up a batch of empathy and slip it into the meeting coffee.  Yeah it was a dick move on his part.  So what?  You can't be annoyed by what someone else says without your permission.
