-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/57otua/sober_almost_two_weeks_but/

Hey guys. I've struggled with alcohol for years and I've finally joined AA and I've been sober and feeling good for almost two weeks. The problem is that my husband who I love to bits still drinks. Alot. He thinks nothing of bringing alcohol into the house even though I asked him not to or at least cut back. I also think he resents me attending three meetings a week so being out of the house three nights a week. Anyone out there have advice? Or gone through something similar? How do I help him understand how aa works and how much this is going to be a struggle for me?
----------immediate responses--------

For the time being you just have to get blinders on and focus on yourself. Maybe try an Alanon meeting. r/alanon
Maybe he would go to an open AA meeting with you...I'm sorry to hear this. I could not have stayed sober with alcohol in the house. It sounds like his relationship with alcohol is more important to him than you are. It is a difficult truth to face but he appears to not understand and to be trying to sabotage your sobriety. 
I think you should go to both AA and Alanon. Alanon will give you separate tools to work with regarding your husband while not taking away from your own recovery. 
Do 90 in 90. If he is home drinking you should be out at meetings. 
Pray about it. Do your recovery and he will follow. If not then at least you are sober. It's easier said than done but have faith and keep going to meetings. 
Until my sobriety didn't depend on anyone or anything other than my desire to be sober I continued to drink and when I drink I get drunk and when I get drunk I black out and when I black out other people tell me stories and the story got bad enough that I have a desire to be sober no matter what.
Don't worry about him for a while as long as you are physically and mentally safe from any drunken abuse.  Get your 90 days.  Get a sponsor.  Go to marriage counseling to help you both cope with this big change in status quo.  My sponsor always suggested "don't make any major decisions" in the first year of sobriety - basically let the dust settle with one problem before tackling the next.  His drinking in the house will not magically strike you drunk but don't sit around with him if he's tying one on.  Go read a book take up knitting go to bed early write in your journal have sober friends over for coffee.  Have a plan and things ready and a place to go if you DO have to get the heck away from him in a hurry.  Don't fight about his drinking - it won't help.   Then as you are more stable and you have a bit more time under your belt think about how you need to tackle problems on the long term.  But do know this - if one spouse is an alkie and the other is a normie it's REALLY EASY for that normie to stop drinking out of respect and support if he really is worth a shit - like really easy.  So don't put up with it forever.  There is no reason to stay married to a normie who doesn't respect you enough to make this sacrifice or to an alkie who won't clean-up.  Life is too short to stay married to a dick if you don't have to.  And do not let him be an excuse for you to relapse.
My husband is a relapsing alcoholic - I am a recovering addict/alcoholic...One of my boundaries is that I do not allow alcohol in my home - if it comes in the house - it goes down the drain.  I won't lie this absolutely caused issues/arguments when I first started doing it but it didn't take long for my husband to find somewhere else to drink...I knew that I would not be able to stay quit with alcohol in the house.
Yikes! Have you asked your sponsor about the situation?
My ex wife continued to drink when I decided to get sober.  She resented the life right out of me for being gone to 4-6 meetings/week.  I relapsed and she hated me even further for that.  She gave up on Al-Anon after 2-3 meetings and  I went straight back to AA was welcomed with open arms and years later we are divorced she is miserable and I am a successful business owner sober and happy with my wife whom I met at an intergroup meeting.  I rely heavily on the basics:  one day at a time recovery must be done for oneself above all else recovery depends on AA unity the answers will come if your own house is in order and daily meditations.  I wish for your prayers to be answered and your soul and mind cleansed.
Strong sponsorship!  
