-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/59f5nv/struggling_with_the_higher_power_concept/

Hi  .  .As an agnostic non religious person I'm having some difficulty with this concept philosophically. I know that your higher power can be anything that you want it to be.. I'm just having some issues with the concept. For instance let's say hypothetically there is some kind of guiding/helping "force" at work considering all the insanity going on in this world and people who are waaaay worse off than me I would think that this higher power would have far more pressing matters to deal with than keeping a drink out of my hand. It's hard for me to hear things like "If you stayed sober today then thank your higher power" This power needs to be thanked like it's a person? Also "Acceptance everything is how it should be nothing happens in God's world by mistake" Sooo... Determinism then? Everything is preordained? If that's the case then why am I thanking anything? And what is praying going to do if the course has already been charted?  .  .I'm trying to keep an open mind because I want this to work for me but I'm just having a hard time with it logically.. I know you can do: G.O.D (group of drunks) I might have to just stick with that I guess but that doesn't seem to completely work either but it's probably the best I can do right now.  .  .I'm hoping people who have wrestled with this in the past and managed to resolve it could share their thought process thanks.
----------immediate responses--------

You are far from the only person to have had this problem.  The central concept in the higher power thought is that you have to have something to rely on besides just yourself.  The experience of others your sponsor etc. are all tools outside of yourself that can help you to keep from drinking/using.  It gives us another layer of protection and accountability because if we are all left to fend for ourselves we wouldn't be successful or at least as not as successful as we are together.
I struggled heavy the the concept of God even knowing it could be what I chose to believe it to be.  I went to repeated meetings asking questions similar to those you ask.   Defiantly agnostic and unwilling. .And when I am asking for help and saying thank you it's not necessarily focused on going to a person or an entity. I just say it. In the beginning I said it because I was told to and it was strange. I got annoyed that I had to do it. The concept of higher power HP spirit of the universe is different sometimes many times during my day. And when I finally grew tired of asking so many questions about what how why how can it be when will I see it I was able to see and feel those things which I hadn't before.  I just did as my sponsor said and slowly things did change. .I saw this happening when situations which used to frustrate me frustrated me less. Or things that did anger me anger me less. I am capable of listening and being present. Those are things which I as an alcoholic am not capable of. The easiest way I have found to see a God in my life is to call on my experience. Because when I was drinking without a higher power in my life I fucked shit up in wild ways. And today and one day at a time or moment at a time I will say things like 'Help' 'please' or 'thank you'. I almost always am able to pull back and see that HP pulled me up where I was taking myself down. .Keep listening to those in the meetings and you will likely hear something that connects with you. .Keep coming back!.
I struggled with this too the book Dharma Punx and Refuge Recovery podcasts helped me a lot. 
 13 yrs sober here. I get where you are at. I'm not religious and I never have been. The whole higher power not God/ spirituality not religion thing was difficult for me too. Way too broad of a topic to cover briefly but here's a couple things I've learned that might be helpful. . First off I personally call him God for simplicity and symbolic reasons I suppose. It's just a word because you need one. Plus it makes it easier for people to know what I'm talking about. I say "him" and "he" and talk to him and about him like he is a person because that's how I think and communicate. I don't know any other way. As far as who or what God is or how he works I have no idea. The more I try to figure it out the more confused I get. I've realized that I don't need to understand it for it to work. What's more important for me to understand is that I know prayer works through my own experience. . Don't over think it or try to look at it logically. It will never make perfect sense. All I know is that there is something some "power" if you will beyond my comprehension that changed my life in ways I was unable to accomplish by myself and the result is pretty satisfying. I don't pretend to have all the answers nor do I need them in order to be content.. 
You are definitely not alone - I struggled with exactly the same issues you describe. ..Here's how I resolved the concerns you raised. ..First it was suggested that I take the things that made sense to me and leave the rest. In the beginning a deterministic universe with an omniscient god that you can talk to was too much to swallow and so I took the advice I was given and tuned out when people talked in those ways. ..Today I see it a little differently. When someone says "if you're sober today thank your higher power" i just hear them expressing their beliefs in as simple a way as they know how to. It's their higher power after all they can do what they want with it/him/her!..On to the specific questions. ..No your higher power doesn't need to be a being that you can pray to. Mine is the aggregate of all love in the world (or occasionally it's the universe when I'm feeling less happy about humanity) and it works for me. My prayers are then about asking "what would the loving thing be to do?" Or "what would make the universe a better place?" Is this the right approach? Who knows but my sponsor said ok and I'm still sober 7 years later. ..As for determinism in the acceptance chapter the literal meaning still doesn't sit well with me. But what does work for me is the a metaphorical interpretation: first in order to get where I am today everything did have to happen the way it happened. That's pretty indisputable! And second while I don't believe that everything happens for a reason I do believe that the deeper I wade into the stream of life and the more experiences I open myself up to the more meaning I find in every situation. When I'm very in tune spiritually every experience I have is meaningful and something I can learn from even if it isn't happening "for a reason."..Hope this is helpful!
Another aspect of the higher power thing that hasn't been previously touched on in the other (awesome) comments is the concept of humility. I have to realize that I am one person among many just trying to survive. I call my higher power "a great big universe full of grace" because there's no reason I should be alive but I am and I don't get to take credit for that. I didn't do anything except decide to quit drinking and stay quit. There's not much I do get to take credit for mostly I just show up where and when I say I will and the universe continues to provide the rest. That's my faith knowing that the universe has provided and believing there's still enough for me to get exactly what I need if I continue to be accountable. My ego thinks I'm entitled but I'm just another person on a rock in space. 
Thanks everyone for the input :)
An open mind is all you need. There are people who say there is a God and people who say there isn't but the truth is that nobody actually knows. The only truly honest position philosophically speaking is an open-minded agnosticism -- which by a fortunate coincidence is all that the programme requires. I still have no idea what if anything I'm praying to but something seems to be working. 
Three years in the group is still my HP. living in the buckle of the Bible Belt some of these people cannot understand that there are some people who don't come from a Church driven culture. .About all I have figured to do today is to believe that my fellow alcoholics believe and it works for them so the group works well as my HP. .I sure I will ever be able to say that God is my higher power but I have stepped down from trying to fight that belief that there is no God and embrace that it is not within my power to say definitively that there is no God. .Good luck. 
Don't let your concept of a higher power be constrained by your previously conceived notions about God/religion. The facts are this: 1) alcohol is more powerful than you 2) nature has infinite examples of how fragile life is ie: hurricanes waves earthquakes 3) your way isn't really working anymore. Let Good Orderly Direction or Group Of Drunks be your higher power.  Look into deism buddhism pantheism or pastafarianism. Make up your own concept don't let your preconceived notions kill you. People are literally dying in the streets this disease is nothing to fuck with.  Good luck and try to embrace this process instead of fighting it. 
I'm 6 years clean and sober and an atheist...I totally still struggle with the concept of a higher power - mine is my sponsor and the people in the rooms with more sober time than I have.  It's working for me for now and if it stops working I will reevaluate.  When people say thank you higher power - I thank my sponsor.  When people tell me to pray - I meditate. 
I didn't so much come to believe in God as I came to realise that I am not God. Even an atheist/agnostic such as myself can decide to "quit playing God" (the essence of Step 3) without believing in a God of the Bible or Quran...Even though I don't believe in a Christian God I do find that some "Christian" prayers actually do work particular the step 4 prayer and the step 7 prayer. I find that if I repeatedly recite them when thinking about someone who has angered me (step 4 prayer) or at the beginning of each working day before I set foot out of my door (step 7 prayer) over time my whole outlook on life does change and the obsession to drink leaves me. God knows how it works :-) It doesn't so much matter how it works as much as that it does works. ..I've given up saying that I'm an atheist now. I guess I'll always be an agnostic as by definition no-one can actually know what God is. But I see myself more of a pragmatist now - if something works I keep on doing it regardless of how absurd it seems. I think the religionists call this "humility"..The key to a successful recovery for me is doing rather than theorising. I spent the last 8 years of my drinking theorising about whether or not the 12 step program of recovery would work for me. It wasn't until I started doing the things I thought would never work that I got sobriety. I'm in my 7th year of sobriety now and in all that time I haven't felt the need to go to any church or mosque or synagogue and I haven't felt the need to drink either. I pray and meditate privately and feel the presence of a higher power within me. I feel that for me my sobriety is more than enough testimony to my higher power which I have overtime come to call God.... 
I have addressed the higher power concept with others confused or frustrated with it.  I use several different means of helping myself come to grips with an entity existing beyond my influence on myself.  I have used the Sun as something I can not deny as being superior to my own abilities to survive.  Without it there would be no food no water cycle and no earth to survive on.  I do not pray to the sun I just focus on its' power being greater than my own.  
Never religious here. Just don't have the church bone others seem to come equipped with. I followed the book/sponsor suggestions to disregard what others believe and evaluated any/all spiritual concepts and ideas in terms of how they resonated/didn't resonate with me. What did strike me as 100 true I kept and lost that which could not make that grade. What I was left with has worked well for a long time.
Me too man. I've resigned to allowing mine to be "Chaos" (the global force of everyone else's will). I find comfort in that disorder. Knowing that my will is just one of literally billions allowing me to understand that there is a lot I cannot change so I must give it up to chance. I put my faith in Good Orderly Direction in the Group Of Drunks that help me stay on target   moving in the right direction with my own intents and purposes. I am still an atheist. Religion and spirituality are two different thing entirely. This program is about spirituality. 
I suggest a well seasoned sponsor and a thorough study of the text portion of the Big Book.  It is very clear on this topic.  I personally didn't have a problem with god I just wanted to create my god.  Kind of silly if I could create a god then why am I in an AA meeting?  After being sober 21 years and getting knocked to my knees again I decided to try someone else's God.  I have a peace today that had been missing for 21 years.  About to celebrate 27 years.  That's my bit for what it is worth.
