-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/5a67j4/am_i_the_only_one_who_isolates_during_the/

I'm sitting on 3 years but I still struggle bad during the holidays. I'm grateful that normies like me enough to invite me to their parties but I always politely decline then they ask why and I tell them I become a werewolf when I drink they reply well come to the party and just don't drink. Hahahaha! Sometimes I laugh out loud when people suggest this method like I've never tried that a million times before. I never needed a holiday to get drunk before but from October to February it seems to be a hurricane season for drunkards like me. Peace to those others who struggle during this shitfest time of year now it's time to hit a meeting. 
----------immediate responses--------

Going into my first holiday season sober.  I know my family will skip serving alcohol if I ask but it will be such a glaring omission that it will be like have a flashing sign over my head flashing 'alcoholic.'  I feel like I kind of just want to skip as much of it as possible.  With all that has happened this year I have a feeling it is going to be very very depressing.  But I will worry about it as it gets closer.  One day at a time.  Not drinking today.  
I love the holidays! But my family has never had alcohol-centered holiday get togethers. None of my immediate family are heavy drinkers either. Few friends are the party type as well and I'd rather spend time with my wife than go to most parties anyways. I enjoy being able to enjoy people's company sober today and this will be my third sober holiday season.
I though I would have a hell of a time with it as well  but I discovered a few things:..- for the most part  I was the only one getting shitfaced at these events. Everyone else was merry  I was tanked. ..- if I wander about with a drink that looks alcoholic everyone assumes it is alcoholic and I fit right in. ..- never met a host yet that couldn't use a hand. Buzzing about picking up empties  serving snacks  and making sure the chip bowls are full really helps the hosts. ..- I go in with everyone knowing that I can't stay until the end. That way when some of the others get to the point where they get really annoying I pull the trigger on my excuse and make a graceful exit. ..- I arm myself with a plan before I arrive. Transportation is lined up so I can scoot solo  nobody is counting on me for a ride. I have a full tank of gas  my tires are inflated  and I have given several sober buddies a heads-up that they might get a mayday call if my brain goes sideways. ..Stay focused  stay solid  plan ahead and there is no reason why we can't enjoy social events where booze is present. 
The holidays for me when I was drinking and using was just an excuse to tie on a multiweek bender. URG. I would hate new years because that's when the amaturs would ruin it for the professionals. ..After I started getting clean and sober I didn't know how to behave and then after that I didn't know how to behave sober either. Plus a lot of my family events were major weird. However going to holiday things in recovery has been a blast.  ..The cool thing about this thing "recovery" we have is that it means we are never alone: unless we wish to be.  All of the clubs in the Houston area have loads and loads of holiday events. It is great fun to be around people who really live gratitude...I like what you typed. When it gets weird it is good time for a meeting.
No it's something I've done for a long time. I don't like to go around my family as they are all avid drinkers
isolating during the holidays keeps me sad and anxious. the rooms have holiday parties for us so we don't feel stuck and unsafe alone or around our drunk families. check one out. have fun 
