-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/5bizbe/5_years_sober_here_i_have_a_question_for_yall/

So my husband relapsed and came back to the rooms over the summer. He has three months again. It's been really difficult finding our footing through this. He is struggling with his higher power and disliking having to "have to do" certain things in order to stay sober. I asked him if it was the praying the step work the meetings that he disliked.... he doesn't know. ..I said "well it's better than using right? Or would you rather be doing that?" He said of course he'd rather be drunk and high everyday.... I got upset so he added "without consequence just like any other alcoholic or addict."..I told him I would really not want to drink again even if I had impunity. It was fun in the beginning but I can't even hypothetically say yeah I wanna drink like a normal drinker. Why? I drank until oblivion every time. I don't want that isolation anymore....TL;DR: If you could drink with impunity would you?
----------immediate responses--------

No because for me there is no impunity. Never was.  That's the lesson.  The 12 Promises have come true for me there is no going back not even hypothetically.  
Yes I would. But there are millions of hypotheticals that are completely impossible. I also would like to be a dog for a few days. Both are equally possible for me.
Off the table for me ain't no way I could do that. Nor would I want to. .
If I could drink with impunity I wouldn't be here to read your post or write this comment. I wouldn't have any problems with alcohol and would have no reason to be poking around recovery subreddits.
So I guess the reason behind my question isn't the philosophy of drinking with impunity and if you could what would that actually mean about the state of your "ism" .... I just mean on a simpler level... ..I wouldn't drink bc I don't want to. My husband says he isn't drinking/using because the consequences are too great. 
My DOC is not alcohol but I would not want to drink/use regardless of consequence. I no longer like or crave that feeling of getting "fucked up". Sometimes naturally the thought occurs to me - I think that happens to many if not all of us. But when I truly stop to think it through I realize that I don't really like the actual feeling/sensation of being high drunk whatever anymore. ..That doesn't mean it's like that for all of us and it took me a long time to get here. We are all in different stages of our journey and I can say that three months in I still craved constantly. 
yeah I mean - like other people are saying the question doesn't have any bearing on reality - we can't drink w/ impunity the act of drinking brought us to desperate lows and if we drink again it will do that again. ..It is an interesting question though. I think about this sometimes - in high school my friends and I used to joke about doing a bunch of drugs when we're super old and about to die - like why not do heroin? In recovery that floats through my brain sometimes - what if i was about to die? had something terminal then would I drink? would I "get" to?..who knows what the future holds but I really think I wouldn't. that idea "we recoil from it as from a hot flame" has come true for me. I occasionally want to drink I'll get little pangs once in a while that usually go as quickly as they come. For the most part though it just holds no power over me. It's dangerous like a flame so I avoid it but I don't think about fire all day and I don't really think of alcohol much either...What I do think a lot about is recovery how to do the next right thing and how to act in line with my conscience. How to do things that make me feel content and connected to the world like I'm contributing something. How to find relief from difficult feelings by talking about it or just feeling them instead of running away. It still seems too pat and saccharine to say "I'm happier without it" but it's really true. It's more complicated than that but that is a true statement. I'm more me I'm more connected to the world I have a future things I care about and am good at. I'm of use to people I can share love and not just be a weird and isolated drunk. 
It's harmful thinking but not entirely without merit. Do I wish I could use again? Drink again? I guess I mean I'd love to be a "normie" I know where it leads though and I know that sticking in that frame of mind is harmful to my dedication to a program and in fact the direct opposite of the step work that I have done/committed to. .At three months again I might be stuck in that frame of mind but I'd hope after a relapse that I'd know where it could lead to.. 
Thank you for sharing and generating all these thoughtful comments and making me think about my own answer as well- and how the reason for it has shifted over time. I am 21 months sober...Would I drink? No. That has thankfully been my firm and unwavering answer to that question from the moment I was clear of acute withdrawals. It was such a relief to break free of the physical dependency the crushing obsession and nerves-on-fire need to drink no matter what. I was drinking myself to death and still could not stop. Even when I knew damn well that downing that pint of vodka would land me in the ER. Again. And again. So I was very fortunate in a sense to be faced with immediate excruciatingly painful consequences if I were to pick up again let alone the emotional void/hell that drinking became for me. Drinking stopped being a release or escape for me long before I stopped. But the addendum to my "no" was for longer than I realized "but I would give anything to feel at peace or okay in my skin again like I did in the early days of drinking." ..That second part is only very recently starting to change. I am beginning to be able to sit with myself with the present moment and be. I have experienced moments of deep and true serenity and they are not in any way the product of my environment or circumstances. The serenity is always there I just never realized I could choose to recognize it. And drinking stuffing my face binge watching Netflix obsessively reorganizing my socks-- whatever it is I may run to in order to escape my own self--such activities by the very nature of the motivation behind them only serve to reinforce my blindness to my peace. And so now my reasons for not drinking impunity or no are developing. Even if I could drink one drink like a normal person it would still only be a harmful distraction and the momentary buzz or relief still comes at the expense of being present.
Yes.  If I was able to find a magic potion that did exactly what I wanted to do every time I ingested it I would drink it constantly...I thought I had found that 'magic' in booze.  It took away my sorrows it made me socially at ease it gave me courage and fortitude.  But I could never even at the best of times control the effects and it was this lack of control which ultimately led to my downfall and subsequently needed recovery...While there were times that alcohol did the task that I had assigned it there were equal times when it had the opposite effect of the one I wanted.  Instead of revving me up for a good time it would sometimes blank the time out from my memory.  Instead of erasing my sorrows it would rev them up.  And the use of more alcohol to blot out the times that I 'mishandled my booze' had a multiplier effect that eventually consumed my life...Even in sobriety I have to guard against 'magical thinking' that makes me want to apply one-size-fits-all solutions to my problems.  Prayer will not solve everything.  My sponsor does not have all the answers.  I cannot do service work to the exclusion of all else in an effort to ingratiate myself to my fellow AA's.  Finding balance and perspective is for me going to be a lifelong struggle...So yes even though I love the live I have been given in recovery I must acknowledge the part of my brain that wants to tell me that somewhere out there there is an instant solution to everything and all I need to do is find it.  Failure to admit this weakness in my own thought process is the first step towards my supposed 'cure' and eventual relapse.
I wouldn't drink but I can say I would for sure use other substances. In turn that would probably end up with me drinking and the cycle would repeat. 
&gt;If you could drink with impunity would you?..Yeah probably...  I would hate myself but I would do it.
First I hope you're investigating Al-Anon..Second...Time for your husband to read [this](http://www.aa.org/assets/en_US/en_bigbook_chapt7.pdf) again...if he did previously?
Nope can't even imagine being drunk or drinking.  Been suicidal in sobriety and drinking didn't even occur to me.  How's that so sober that dying is an option and drinking isn't?  There is a ray of hope.  LOL
I found that staying in my right mind is wonderful. Doing something that would cloud my perception is horrifying to me at this point. I fell in love with reality early on. 
Yes I would. Drinking with impunity sounds amazing if I could actually do it. I can't so that is not an option for me but if I could get away with it without destroying everything I definitely would. I'd love to be able to get high or drunk and not fall into the depths of despair but what's the point of that hypothetical?... The big book tells me that the idea that I will be able to drink like normal people is the great obsession of EVERY alcoholic. 
Nope. I've got kids. When would I get to see them if I was drunk all the time?
