-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/5buqcr/honesty_is_the_best_policy/

So I had dinner with a good friend of mine over the weekend.  He used to be my sponsor but he has relapsed on crystal meth and crack.  Now I am there for HIM as he has been for me.  I truly do not understand about drug addictions like the ones he has been dealing with.  Alcohol has always been my vice and I have not had a drop in over 10 months.  I feel like I am doing pretty good in spite of the stress in my life right now.  I am dealing with what we in AA call some "real life shit." I won't go into it but it involves family health issues and a close friend who's dying of cancer and in his final weeks..Now over the weekend my former sponsor and current friend point blank asked me if I smoked marijuana the other night.  He had suspected that is what I'd gone to do because he knows my history with this person.  I didn't want to lie to him so I told him that yes I had.  I do not live in a state where it is legal for recreational purposes.  However I do read and I keep up with the medical research so I know there are many benefits of marijuana.  I recently bought a vaporizer and I vape weed maybe twice a month at home.  I don't go out and party after most of the time I just go to bed or fall asleep on the couch.  Boring right?  Well I am using it to deal with some major depression anxiety and panic attacks.  I have to say too that it has brought down my anxiety tremendously.  Am I self medicating yes.  Why? Because anxiety is not listed as a diagnosis that is covered in my state..I plan on continuing to use marijuana for anxiety and I still plan on going to my home group AA meetings.  I feel like they both are helping me tremendously.  I know a lot of people (if they knew) would say that I need to start my day count over which is not going to happen.  Do you think it is okay to just leave this part out with my AA peers?  I go to meetings because "the only requirement for membership is a desire to stop drinking."  If pot was a problem for me and I was abusing it then I think I should start my day count over.  What do you think?  I need some advice here.  I will tell you that I am not starting my day count over.  If this makes people in my meetings angry and pushes me away I am likely to go drink again.  If I drink again it may kill me this time.  I need your advice but please be kind.  If people start pushing me out the doors of AA it is going to be a dangerous slippery slope for me.
----------immediate responses--------

Do you have a sponsor to discuss this with? Other than the one that recently relapsed? I smoked weed once at 5 months sober and did not reset my sobriety date. However I made the commitment then to not do any drugs again to the best of my ability as it only puts my sobriety at risk. If I had clinical anxiety I would consider it unwise to start choosing my own medication dosage and frequency of use. My wife has minor anxiety and her doctor suggested Cerenity which is a natural pill of some sort. She does not use it very often. My father in law has worse anxiety and he has been regurlarly taking a more standard prescribed anti-anxiety medication. Everyone is different but it is risky as an alcoholic to start self-diagnosing and self-medicating no matter the reasons or substance. That is my opinion.
As someone who's DOC is marijuana but who has struggled with alcohol and attends AA I personally don't think of you as sober...That said your recovery is yours and your intitled to do whatever you want with it.  ..I believe that honesty openness and willingness is important in sobriety.  ..I do think that you should tell your current sponsor..
[deleted]
When I first started in AA I used to smoke weed and like you didn't think I had a problem with weed so I started my count from when I stopped drinking.  ..It was only when I got a sponsor and he explained he wasn't going to be able to go through The Steps with me if I continued smoking weed that I stopped.  ..I stopped weed after a month after I stopped drinking when I realised that I wanted to make significant changes in my life that could only be achieved through The Steps. I maintained my count up until 6 months then someone else in the fellowship pointed out to me (in a kind of backhanded way) that I was actually only 5 months clean and sober so at 6 months I waited an extra month before restarting my count and I shared about that decision in a meeting.  I'm now 9 months clean AND sober 10 months off the drink...From my own personal experience which is not dissimilar to yours  I get the impression you are using weed as a crutch and whilst you may believe it's helping your anxiety and your personal research appears to justify your use from my own personal experience it actually isn't helping you at all. It's just a comfort blanket your using to mask a deeper problem in your life you aren't ready to face up to. I used to get panic attacks and anxiety as well and that has all gone away since i stopped drinking and smoking weed and started step work and meeting my sponsor regularly and talking honestly about how I feel with him...In my honest opinion I'd suggest you'd be better off stopping self medicating finding a new sponsor and discussing with them honestly the reasons why you are feeling anxious and with their help trying to find ways to deal with those emotions/feelings in a sober way and seek help from your doctor.  (I'm editing this as I see you already have prescription medication so I want to be clear that I am not telling you to stop taking anything your doctor has told you to take if anxiety is an issue but if the addictive nature of this medication is something that concerns you you should certainly take it up with your doctor).  ..Whether you choose to discuss your weed use with people or discussing the length of sobriety you have in The Rooms is entirely up to you but you aren't sober at the moment.  You may want to rephrase any open dialogue in terms of non-drinking with "I am x amount of days off the drink" to avoid any confusion with other AA members...People aren't going to push you out the door of AA but they aren't going to validate your use of mind altering substances as an excuse to blot out the pain of something in your life when they are struggling with similar issues without the use of alcohol (which is also a drug the same as weed meth crack or heroin)...I wish you all the best in your recovery.  If the count is important to you then head over to /r/stopdrinking and set yourself up with a flair over there.
I say sober is sober and refrain from smoking pot when around pot smokers but I know people in AA who do smoke pot and consider themselves sober. .I took a monster energy drink to a meeting with me.And someone said I should speak.To my sponsor as that may render my 3 years sobriety void. I don't think so. I have also been prescribed pain meds for both an oral surgery and a blown up tooth awaiting a root canal. I take meds as prescribed. I do not think that cancels my sobriety date. 
I am in meetings with someone who relapsed because they thought pot was fine. They were lucky to get back in. Just FYI. 
Yours is the very first post I've read after my first visit to Al-anon. I am not here to judge you but I'm also not here to enable you (yeah I took the lessons to heart). What does that little voice in your head tell you? Are you honestly self-medicating? Or are you trying to look for loopholes? Honestly I could see you benefitting from medical marijuana it's true. But as a person who suffers from the same ailments I'd say SSRIs would be the better route. ..But whatever you do please friend be healthy and don't give up on yourself. 
Addiction is addiction using chemicals to give you a feeling of feeling right is not sober in the doctors opinion its said that alcoholics drink for the effects produced by alcohol if your vaping HTC to feel ok than its abuse. Anxiety needs to be tackled with doctors care and substance abuse will cause it to get worse. Don't get caught up in the lie and get honest. Unless your rigorously honest this program will elude you.
