-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/5d0vuc/lorazepam/

SO I've been struggling with alcoholism for a long time like many of you. I recently had a really hard night where I tried to kill myself and was taken to the ER. They prescribed me lorazepam to get me off of alcohol. Has anyone else had experiences with this prescription? The side effect are apparently suicidal tendencies which I am afraid of. 
----------immediate responses--------

I am not a medical doctor...BUT:..Lorazepam is a benzodiazepine. It's also highly addictive and what I know from addiction rehab and IOPs it's the only other drug besides alcohol where if you become addicted to it the withdrawals can kill you. It's commonly referred to as Ativan and is similar to Xanax. It's basically a sedative. ..It's also VERY dangerous to take this with alcohol. Please please please do not drink on this medication. It will intensify this medication and if you drink and take too much of it...well  devastating results. ..Please please PLEASE be very careful when taking this. ..I understand that things like this are prescribe to help people quit drinking but I will never understand why for the life of me doctors hand over one addictive substance to help get rid of another. It's like changing seats on the titanic. Please just be careful. 
Lorazapam falls under the category of a xanax or klodapin  now it can be used to fight off the DTs but I would personally suggest from experience that you should either A: enter a detox and let them dispence it to you.  Or B: give it to a trusted person I.E.  your a family member  sponsor  or significant other (assuming they don't drink)  because alcoholics very commonly switch their addiction of alcohol to an addiction of benzos or even worse start to drink on top of the medication which is VERY dangerous and can cause you're breathing to suppress causing you to stop breathing all together.  SO PLEASE NO MATRER WHAT YOU DO DONNOT DRINK ON TOP OF YOUR LORAZEPAM!  if you need any thing feel free to shoot Me a message. .
Please follow directions as given by the doctor. Lorazepam is often used to make detox safer and easier. I'd be more afraid of having seizure from withdrawal. Contact a physician if you have questions or go to inpatient detox. 
It can mitigate some of the dangerous side affects of alcohol withdrawal but it is also very addictive and very analogous to alcohol insofar as addiction potential.  Shouldn't take for more than a week.  It's absolutely not a treatment for alcoholism.
