-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/5dbvjg/did_anyone_relapse_because_of_the_election/

I was wondering the other day. It seems like it would be a trigger.
----------immediate responses--------

I held off the day of. I was so proud of myself. But then the following day I relapsed after reading comments on FB. :-/
triggers aren't real. if someone relapsed because of this election then they were just looking for an excuse to drink. 
If you will drink for any reason you will drink for any reason.
Absolutely not!
No thought it might be a trigger so I planned the evening to keep it far away. Drinking won't help me no matter how it went. 
I had a cigarette for the first time in 7 years but didn't drink. That cig wasn't appealing. 
It's got absolutely nothing to do with me what other people do. It's none of my business and for that reason I had no problem staying sober...6 years ago though it would have been all about me. Poor me.  I would have used it purely as an excuse to get drunk. Poor me poor me pour me a drink. I wouldn't have relapsed I would have got drunk and acted like an ass...Let's tell it like it is and not dress it up with nice cosy words like relapse. I would have taken a drink knowing full well that I can't control my intake got drunk and abusive and more likely than not wound up either dead or in jail...Thinking I'm more important than I am is my trigger to drink. Thinking I'm less important than I am is my trigger to drink. Having a humble and balanced attitude to life is my defence against a drink.
I was 9 years sober when 9/11 happened. Then my ex-wife was moving to the same state I was in. Back then...those were enough to force me 'out'. I used them as excuses but I understand the feelings associated with this philosophy. I went out for 2 days and came back to the program. I haven't had a drink or a drug since. I get it. Since then I've studied the book and program. I know now that after 24 years of sobriety (minus the 2 days out) If I want to drink or drug? it's simply because I want to. Today? I don't want to. Just for today.
Not in my area that I've heard of yet. All the regulars are still showing up so the extreme joy these people felt was apparently not a sufficient trigger.
No one relapsed because of the election they relapsed because they are alcholic
I know about one. She's still out there too.
