-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/5dri30/looking_for_an_explanation_for_an_aa_joke/

My mother was in AA for many years and I went to a few meetings with her. More than once I heard a story that goes like this (sorry for butchering it):..>When I first relapsed it was at an upscale place. But after one week I ended up at [local dive bar]...This always resulted in hearty laughter. ..I'm not understanding the truth behind this that makes it funny. What predisposes an alcoholic who recently relapsed to end up in a dive bar so quickly? Why not continue drinking at more reputable establishments?
----------immediate responses--------

every time an alcoholic relapses it only gets worse and worse. which is the point of the joke. we start off at upscale lounges with $15 cocktails and end up in dirty dives with $2 shots.
Money.  How quickly one goes from enjoying a drink to just drinking
Once I've started drinking and the craving has set in the upmarket place and its clientele won't tolerate me drinking the way I need to drink. They don't like a fall down belligerent drunk messing with their 'ambience'. They know and I know that the way I drink is not 'normal' drinking...At the dive there are other people drinking the same way I do so I don't feel judged. 
Laughter in an AA meeting just means someone has identified with the sharer. Essentially they are laughing at themselves - how ridiculous there former selves now appear to them. Its a sign of recovery. AA meetings are full of laughter.
Another explanation for the 'joke' being resonant with alcoholics is the illusion that alcohol has in our brains - that it will make us suave sophisticated witty charming and attractive to others - we will be able to hang around yacht clubs and soirees sipping old scotch and champagne.  But even if we try this with every intention of maintaining our image and self-control we inevitably end up being boorish idiotic stupid and repugnant to others - and end up drinking in places we would never consider walking into when sober but *have* to because the craving for alcohol compromises our standards and our judgment and we end up back where we left off without ever meaning to...It's not a 'ha-ha' funny but the laughter of identification.  It happened to me it happens to so many of us alcoholics that you can't help but either smile or cry at the insanity of that illusion.  And being able to smile is what makes recovery beautiful...It's the same laughter and smile we have when a child announces "I'm going to grow up to be President!"  It's not meant to be mean or pointed but as adults we know the odds of that happening - one in a hundred million.
Everyone laughed because everyone was familiar with the local dive bar. It was most likely the way your mom told it.
