-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/5eytk3/how_can_i_help_him/

Not sure if it belongs here but my ldr boyfriend suffers from alcoholism. He attends AA meetings and has being doing so for almost 3 months now it has been hard since he relapses and drinks. The longest he went without drinking was around 3 months. ..He at the same time gave up tabacco he no longers craves for smoking but alcohol still gets him. ..We talk everyday and he even knows he has a problem and he wants to fix it  he is so hopeless because he thinks it is a disease it will not be taken out of him...We are in a long distance relationship and when I visited him I saw his dark side that I never want to see in my life. He knows this and since I will see him soon he has tried changing this horrible habit. He means well he tries his best to stay away but it just the cravings to the alcohol that gets hold back. ..I made a mistake by "being the mom" constantly telling him he shouldn't when I find out he drank and me getting mad but that just made him hide things from me. ..I am now trying to just hear him out and reminded him of the things he made me go through when we were together. What can I do? .He has so much potential he really wants to get rid of this problem. ..He is a software engineer but he right now hasn't found a job and is in customer service. I know he wishes to be in a better job and then he gets depressed..What can I do as his girlfriend and as long distance partner?
----------immediate responses--------

By going to Alanon you will discover how to deal with his drinking. Look them up on line and start today. .
See /r/Alanon a support group for friends and family of alcoholics. 
Get to Alanon if you are able. 
"What can I do as his girlfriend and as long distance partner?"..He's basically going to do what ever he wants . You'll wear yourself down trying to keep tabs on him..
by going to Al-Anon you'll discover YOUR recovery from his or anyone's alcoholism. You WON'T learn how to fix him or anyone..All 12 step programs (like AA and Al-Anon) are based on the 12 steps found in AA's text book The [Big Book](http://www.aa.org/pages/en_US/alcoholics-anonymous). If YOU read the first 164 pages you will learn about what alcoholism is and you will learn about how the PROGRAM (not meetings) works. By educating yourself you free yourself from his and other alcoholics grip on you.
