-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/5gef5i/im_scared_to_fail_and_dont_know_what_to_do/

I've been debating AA for over a year. I can go a few days without a drink. Apparently 5 days right now. It has worked out because I can hide it as weekend drinking. The fact is once I start drinking all my worries go away. Those worries tend to be money. They don't actually go away of course. Part of the issue is when I'm drunk I blow money like it's going out of style. I'm now thousands of dollars in debt. A lot of that has gone to the bar actually the majority including a credit line increase. .The other problem is I know drinking is a major cause of my depression and anxiety. Earlier this year I went 50 days without drinking. I was in tears a few days but I was able to hide it from people because I worked nights and I won't drink before work. Towards the end of the 50 days my depression and anxiety disappeared. It was a very strange feeling to me but good at the same time. For once I wasn't paranoid. I didn't think my closest friends and family despised me. Also I'm into weight lifting and I lost a lot of fat and looked pretty good. Since those 50 days ended I've drank every weekend. .I'm scared to go to AA and fail or relapse. I'm scared to live my life without alcohol. I don't know how I can be social. I'm very introverted. I feel like my life would be better but I've almost been waiting for someone to tell me I need help. It got to the point I wished for a DUI so I would have to go to AA. (I know that's seriously messed up and wrong)..The only thing that has been able to keep me away from drinking is weight lifting but overtime the drinking wins out on the weekends. 4 different tests told me I need help. Hell maybe I just needed to say all this. Maybe I really do need help..
----------immediate responses--------

Breathe!.How can one be scared of relapsing while trying AA and the 12 steps yet relapse every Friday anyway?..I found "My people" in the rooms of AA. ..I too am an introvert.  Love my quiet time. Still a little overwhelmed and confused by the social people. ..I can say that my fear of the group and contact in AA turned out to be mostly unfounded same as most of my alcoholic fear based decisions. ..I say what do you have to loose? Depression related to emotion stuffing? Shame related to hiding and lying and sneaking? Loneliness caused but self imposed exile? Loss of money due to poor decision making!..Here's an interesting challenge. Try AA for 90 days. As many meetings as humanly possible. Open ears close mouth. ..At the end of 90 days re-evaluate. You can always go back to what you are doing now. ..I'll not drink and go to meetings with you. 
If you want to stop drinking then you'll find others with the same goal at AA meetings. It is a safe place where I learned how to live a sober life. Seeing sober people gave me hope. Take it one day at a time.
Thank you for posting - I can relate so so much to what you're saying! One thing I can say for sure: you will find other people exactly like you in AA meetings. I did. I was blown away that other people had similar experiences and felt the fear and the shame and the anxiety the way that I did...I also worried about showing up and failing. I'm a perfectionist and did not want that. For me I finally got desperate enough that I was willing to do anything to feel better and that was when my journey to sobriety began.
AA meetings won't keep you from drinking or lead you to recovery..The meetings are a place to go to socialize and hear stories from others. The RECOVERY you seek is found in one simple place. The first 164 pages of the Big Book. Read those [pages](http://www.aa.org/pages/en_US/alcoholics-anonymous) before you drink again. Go to a meeting and find someone who has read those pages and is working their PROGRAM. They can help you understand the program. You can begin your RECOVERY now and "before you are halfway through" fear of economic insecurity will leave you. Check this out from pages 83-84: "before we are half way through. We are going to know a new freedom and a new happiness. We will not regret the past nor wish to shut the door on it. We will comprehend the word serenity and we will know peace. No matter how far down the scale we have gone we will see how our experience can benefit others. That feeling of uselessness and self-pity will disappear. We will lose interest in selfish things and gain interest in our fellows. Self-seeking will slip away. Our whole attitude and outlook upon life will change. Fear of people and of economic insecurity will leave us. We will intuitively know how to handle situations which used to baffle us. We will suddenly realize that God is doing for us what we could not do for ourselves." .
Want to learn how to play guitar? You go for guitar lessons and hang out with people who play guitar so they can show you how.  ..Same thing. Stopping drinking is easy. I've done it dozens of times.  ..Staying stopped? Different story.  ..I had to go to AA to find people that stopped stayed stopped and were not only eager to show me but grateful for the chance.  ..Do you want to stop drinking? That's it you're in the club. That's all it takes to join up. Just go to a damn meeting. Get your ass off the floor and go. Walk up to the first person you see shake their hand and tell them it's your first meeting.  ..&gt;  I'm scared to go to AA and fail or relapse. I'm scared to live my life without alcohol. I don't know how I can be social. I'm very introverted. I feel like my life would be better but I've almost been waiting for someone to tell me I need help.  ..Okay I am telling you that you need help. Get over your fear go to a meeting. Jeez you have a shitload of fear about where your life is and where it's headed. You've been investing YEARS to get to the point you're at and you have YEARS yet to go and it's all just dripping with fear.  ..Yet you're MORE scared about dropping an hour of your time at an AA meeting? Something that's no-risk anonymous and might just lead you to a happier more fulfilling life? That's the insanity of alcoholism right there...
You need to decide what you want and then go for it..It's that simple---- We alcoholics can complicate the simplest things...You did the 50 days now do it again and keep going. I used to have 90 days down to a science  and then I'd go tinkering again with the booze.  ..Don't worry about being an introvert.That's just who you are. I sit at home every night and chill out. Socializing for me is too much work. After almost 9 years of sobriety  I am basically the person i was in high school. The young man who sat in the library by himself and  never talked to anyone. . It doesn't matter your personality type when you're trying to get sober.  Tomorrow should be day 1 for you. Keep us posted how it goes.
It sounds like you want change but are afraid of life without alcohol. Going to an AA meeting isn't a commitment. You don't have to say you're an alcoholic share anything or stop drinking. ..I would encourage you to check out a meeting or two. It doesn't mean you're an alcoholic or are going to try to be sober. Even non-alcoholics go to open meetings to support a friend or for a school assignment. Nobody is going to tell you that you're an alcoholic or judge you at all. ..Afterwards if you decide you want to continue to attend meetings that's great. If not that's okay too. Meetings may ask if it's anyone's first meeting. If so all you need to say is your first name. ..Please feel free to message me. I have felt very similar to you in the past. 
