-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/5gjscy/getting_sober_before_im_even_21/

Hello all I'm new to this whole recovery thing and could really use some support....I started drinking a few months after I turned 18 I was on my own and had never tried it before. A bit of history I struggle with panic disorder and have tried many things to take the edge off of my mental disorder. ...I'm not going to lie it worked great alcohol helped me socialize it motivated me it made me like myself more (or made me think I liked myself more)....The problem didn't start until I was 19 I meant a guy who was 24 and we started dating and he was drinking all the time. We started dating based purely on the fact that we liked the same alcohol and could handle similar amounts. I drank from my 19th birthday until my 20th birthday 365 days of drinking 1/5ths of whiskey cases of beer jugs of wine all to myself. Everywhere I went to socialize I brought alcohol even if it wasn't the scene to do so because I couldn't have fun without it. It became a crutch....I honestly didn't know I had a problem up until 3 months ago when friends and family expressed their concerns about me. I thought I was fine so I tried to prove to them that I didn't need it. That's when I realized how bad it was. After a few weeks my relationship fell apart and I realized me and this guy only had our alcoholism in common. I couldn't sleep for weeks I had terrible nightmares night sweats I would wake up and throw up and be shaky all day. I found myself on edge unable to concentrate....I'm 21 in 4 months and it feels awful to be here at this point and say I need help before I even got to know what it was like but today I'm a month sober. The questions I have are how can I stay sober through my 21st birthday? If any of you have any suggestions please let me know.  
----------immediate responses--------

Hello my friend! ..First of all congratulations on one month! That is no small feat. And good on you for listening to concerned friends and family (lord knows I never did) and getting out of an unhealthy relationship. ..It also sounds like you went through the acute withdrawals on your own. The night sweats nightmares shaking barfing... that's all part of it. And they are horrible.... I know. I went from drinking all day every day for 2-3 years... it feels like your heart is just going to explode up and shoot out your eyeballs. But it is not permanent. (Important side note-- if you start drinking again you will have those withdrawals again. THEY CAN BE FATAL. If that happens please seek professional medical help to steer you through the detox. I had to take benzos under medical supervision to get through them at last.)..And now at a month in even though you are past the worst of the acute physical withdrawals it will take a while for your body to fully heal and re-adjust. So just do your best to remember that what you feel like right now is NOT what long-term sobriety feels like. ..As far as maintaining your sobriety through your 21st birthday... first I would ask if you have any other formal support such as an AA group a therapist a doctor? You mentioned that you were self-medicating your panic disorder... you will need help to fully address WHY you were drinking in the first place. If you just try to plow ahead and "don't drink" without changing anything else you will suffer and fail. But you don't have to! ..I did the same thing with self-medicating though mine is severe general anxiety disorder. I could not imagine being around people or functioning without booze to take the edge off. What really saved my life is outpatient rehab and properly treating/addressing the anxiety disorder (with therapy and medication). It was a 5 week program 5 days a week from like 9am- 3pm... think "sobriety classes." It included individual therapy group sessions working with a psychiatrist working on mindfulness and meditation and learning about the bio/neurochemistry behind addiction.  ..That rehab group also introduced us to AA. I was totally skeptical and creeped out by AA before I ever went... but please try some meetings. Every meeting is different so you may have to shop around to find one where you feel comfortable. Usually you can search online and meetings will be listed... all you have to do is show up! (And if you happen to be in or around Chicago lemme know...)..Lastly... you mentioned that it is awful to say you "need help before I even got to know what it was like." Drinking on your 21st birthday is no different than the drinking you had already been doing. The only difference is that it is more expensive to drink in a bar. And not "knowing what it was like"... well... I started really drinking heavily at 22 after college. Self-medicating not just party drinking. From about 2008-2010 it would wax and wane and sometimes I'd get it under "control" (no drinking till after 5pm and after going for a run... but still drinking every day). Then 2011-2013 there was no more pretending I was in control. So if you want to know what it is like to spend a few days in jail for a DUI to drop out of school and lose a scholarship to lie and hide from the person you love most in the world to obsess over booze and staving off the shakes at the expense of literally everything else in your life to damage your body with the booze to the point that you have acute then chronic pancreatitis... I can tell you what that is like. And others in this sub can tell you variations of the same thing. ..It is not worth the fleeting and illusory "pleasure" of drinking on your 21st birthday.  Your brain will try to convince you that you are missing out on something magical and wonderful but it is just the addiction trying to justify itself... on some level I am sure you know that. I really hope you can reach out and get help... the tricky addiction voice diminishes over time it weakens once you realize how blatant its lies are and once you start to appreciate what you would really lose were you to give in. You are so young and your body is much more capable of healing now than it will be in even 5 years. If you stay sober now and avoid all of that damage to your body and mind... you will be doing yourself the greatest favor. ..I just passed 22 months sober at age 31. I also just got out of the hospital after having a "whipple procedure" to remove part of my pancreas stomach and gall bladder (something that is normally done in cases of pancreatic cancer). I had to have that surgery because in my 20s I drank like you did. That is "what it is like." ..It's not necessarily ever going to be easy (because life isn't) but I promise you it will not always be this hard. ..I wish you all the best and sincerely hope you will keep on this path. I am excited for you! Please don't hesitate to PM me for any reason...
Welcome.  Congrats on 30 days.  I got sober at 22 one of my best friends has been sober since he was 17  he had two DUII's at 17 and we became friends because when we met he had two years sober and the state still wouldn't let him drive so when I was a newcomer he would call me for a ride.  We're both in our 30's now and have no regrets about spending our 20's sober.  I'm a bit jealous that he got to do college sober and actually get good grades where I was in my last year when I sobered up. ..Find a young people's meeting in your town.  They are almost everywhere.  You will not be the youngest by a long shot.  It's not about how much or how long we drank it's about how it effected us.  ..How to make it through your 21st birthday?  Start with today.  Find a meeting and ask someone there to help you work the steps it's best if that person has a sponsor and has worked the steps.  Your 21st birthday is just another day.  I was still drinking for mine and it was pretty lame.  
I was in my first AA meeting at 15 so I feel where you are coming from. I had three years sober and relapsed at 18. Took me a year to make it back. Relapsed again after 8 years of sobriety. Each time you go back out it gets harder to come back. That relapse after 8 years took me almost ten years to come back from. ..I mirror what others said about young peoples meetings. My area didn't have any when I was coming up but they can be a godsend...As to the birthday share about it in a meeting. Make some sober friends and plan something for that day with them. 
AA's available whenever you're not interested in going on like this. When you're 21 or 41 or 71. Up to you to decide when enough is enough for you.
I sobered up at 19 and spent my 21st celebrating with sober people.  One of the first things I learned in sobriety was that things are only as important as I make them.  Nothing has to be a big deal.  I don't have to react or act in a certain way.  I have choices and options.  Since my sobriety is #1 it gives me the excuse to not put myself in uncomfortable situations and I don't need to be around booze if I don't want to.  ..I had already partied countless times hard enough to qualify as a "turning 21 bash" so I didn't miss out on anything.  Quite the contrary by sobering up young I've been able to experience so much more than those who keep drinking away their lives.
One of the girls in my home group just turned 21 and got sober when she was 16 from a daily IV heroin habit. You're never too young to start getting better.
The book says we have a daily reprieve contingent upon the maintenance of our spiritual condition.  If you've got some spiritual armor there's not a lot that can be thrown at you that will have any lasting impact.  How do you get through your 21st birthday?  Get a sponsor(if you haven't) and get into the steps.  Hit 'em hard and be fearless.  I got sober at 22 and it was rough for a bit but the nice thing about tough times is they go away.   
