-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/5hv9md/why_cant_i_stop/

Maybe this is a rant...maybe it's not. I don't know where to start. Alcohol? Maybe? I have drank a whole bottle of wine! I want more...I can't stop. Once I have a drink I keep wanting more. I have a daughter...someone who loves me despite my flaws. She will never call me an alcoholic...or will she? She is 6 and I am almost to 30. Why can't I 'get right' why can't I get normal? I am nothing but a flaw. She is my everything and I do nothing but disappoint. She deserves more and I don't want to go on. I try...and try and try. But do I really try? I go one day and then the next I need alcohol. Why do I need it? Why do I taste it every day? Why is it a struggle to leave alcohol? I know it's no good. Maybe it's a flaw. I hate that I love the sweet taste of alcohol. She is my world. She makes me want to do better. How do I leave this substance that is killing me slowly. I hate that I had her because I am no mom at all!!! I drink at night and say she is safe while I pass out from my drunken haze. The next day I put on a show...making.The same mistakes over and over. When will I do better? She is the only reason to stay?  I fear I have lost myself to this drink...if only I would stop and think! She is.my world! I would do anything to give her the world. Yet I can not stop taking a drink. Please god tell me why I drink!!!! Is it because of how I grew up? Because my mother may have been a drunk? I only remember the happy times but what if I pushed all the others aside? How can I be better maybe better than her. Maybe there is no such thing because I have failed at everything. I feel like a loser who can't keep her composure. Everyday trying to deal with a different emotion. Maybe it's for the best and I should just let her be with her dad...it.Could be for the best. He doesn't drink and he doesn't care that this alcoholism is for the bears:(  how can I shake it and how can I make it?? I need advice because I don't know how to stop the cravings. I can't have just one because I will drink up all that offered. You don't have to tell me twice o have already planned the order and flavored. I just want a drink why can't I  think???
----------immediate responses--------

No-one knows the answer why but I suffer from the same problem when I drink. After I have the first one I crave another and as long as I have money for another I have another. But then I have two inside me and the craving is twice as bad so I end up having 4 then 8 then 16. This is what sets alcoholics like me apart from non-alcoholics. Non-alcoholics have a couple of drinks and are satisfied and stop. But I have an abnormal reaction to alcohol I get more thirsty the more I drink. It's like I'm allergic to alcohol but I don't come out in spots instead the allergy manifests in a craving for more and more and more. When I drink I almost always end up insanely drunk and the longer I carried on drinking the worse it got. It's like there is something broken inside me my liver doesn't process alcohol like it should do or something like that and it never will just like I'll never grow a foot taller. There is little use in me trying to find out why because there is no solution to my physical problem I just had to accept it...After years and years of it never getting any better only worse I came to the conclusion that total abstinence is the only answer to my problem with drink. If I don't take the first drink I can't get drunk...Unfortunately I have a second problem which also only afflicts alcoholics I'm also allergic to being sober. Keeping away from the first drink is almost impossible life without the release valve that first drink used to give me was just unbearable. So sooner or later I'd succumb to the insane belief that somehow this time it would be different and I'd be able to just have the one drink maybe two not more that three and then be able to stop. But I never could. My condition when I drank just got worse and worse over time. Whatever is lacking in my body that processes alcohol like normal people is getting less and less and less over time. ..In AA I follow a 12 step program. Only the first step deals with the actual quitting drinking it was down to me to do that with some help and encouragement from a whole lot of other people. The next 11 steps deal with getting through life sober...My last drink was on March 22nd 2010. That was when I completed step one. For the last 6 years I have been practicing the other eleven steps and life just gets better every day. On my own it was unbearable. But with the help of others I meet in AA meetings I've learned to have a happy useful and contented life without finding it necessary to take that first drink. Actually it's much more than that. I've learned how to really live life to the full. I've learned to love being present in the now in reality and running away from it all by drinking no longer even appeals...
You need to make a choice what's more important to you. Your head is screaming one excuse after another why you don't want to separate from your lover "alcohol".  Anyone with a decent amount of sobriety know what you're going through. If you want to quit  you can quit. You wrote :  "Maybe it's for the best and I should just let her be with her dad"....This is just another  thought process your mind is making so that you can remain with your lover "the alcohol".  We've all been there. We can't imagine our life without it. You're torn.It's easy to see and hear in your words. You need to make a choice.  There's a 1000 ways to get sober. A good starting point is to head into an AA meeting and make a plea for help. Humble yourself. Walk into an AA meeting. I did AA in the beginning and then went on to another method. Find your method. People quit everyday. Be one of those people.
I abused alcohol because I'm an alcoholic. Your daughter deserves a sober parent. My kids motivated me to get well. I was honest with a doctor about how much I was drinking and medication helped me detox safely and more easily. A therapist got me started on the road to recovery. AA saved my life. There is help if you want it. 
you can't stop because you don't want to stop.  or at the least your desire to drink is greater than your desire to stop...i believe in reaching bottom.  an alcoholic will continue to drink until they lose or are about to lose something more important to them than drinking...i lost in turn:  job...family...friends...health.  still i drank.  it was only when i was looking at a 15 year bid that my selfish fearful self was about to lose my freedom that i was able to stop.
AA is a beautiful thing and has worked for millions of alcoholics just like you. I know because like you I'm an alcoholic (of a few forms of alcohol) and my life has become wonderful thanks to the program. One of the hardest parts for me was asking for help but once i did i was introduced to a new way of life that has left me happy joyous and free. I'm here if you want to talk. God bless!
Were it not for this facet of alcoholism that you described so well lots of alkies would just quit what's impacting them negatively and stay stopped for good. Unfortunately it's such a powerful part of our little condition that very few of us find a way out unless we reach the point where we are willing to do anything to stop and then begin to recover...You might consider what in your life is more important to you than drinking. When that is gone or threatened you might reach the willing stage.
Great experience in comments here.   Just picked up my first year chip and the fact I can now say that I am grateful to be an alcoholic would sound alien to myself a year ago.   The road is rocky  but I am so happy to have found a way out its hard to even express the words.   There is hope if you want it. 
Ok first of all you are not a loser. Quit calling yourself names. It doesn't help. As for the alcoholism... it's a disease that is sometimes inherited. My father was an alcoholic and so am I and most of my mothers side of the family.  It's not totally incurable. I'm not a doctor but have you considered rehab and/or therapy? I know these things benefit some people but what works for me may not work for you. I'm just throwing out suggestions. .I will say this: I knew a girl from my rehab that was in her early 20s and had a two year old son who was left by himself for TWO DAYS because his mother overdosed along with her boyfriend who was right next to her. This infuriated me because she ( to my knowledge) had been sober before that. I don't know why she went out but it doesn't matter. She basically chose drugs over her own flesh and blood. I'm NOT saying this is you. Not at all. Thinking of your daughter and how she deserves better is a step in the right direction. But you have to keep taking steps. Baby steps even. Your problems won't go away overnight or even a month. It takes time for stuff like this to heal. And some people won't be understanding or will need explanations. Sometimes you can't offer any and that's ok. But like I stated above try rehab and/or therapy and see how that goes. Maybe even AA too if you don't mind hearing about God. Anyway I know you're trying your best because you realize you have a huge problem. You're just stuck right now but don't worry. It doesn't have to be like this. Get some help and good luck with everything!! &lt;3
