-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/5hx5if/how_to_be_a_friend_to_an_alcoholic/

I'm not sure if this is the right place for this please let me know if it's not. I have a new friend who is amazing. He and I click so well I feel like I've known him for forever already. Thing is he's a recovering alcoholic. I've never had a friend who is a recovering alcoholic before so I'm trying to find out more about this disease so I can be a better friend to him. He recently had a relapse this summer. Should I drink around him? Is it okay to talk about alcohol around him? I don't necessarily think he needs to be babied but I definitely want to do right by him as a friend. Any help would be appreciated!
----------immediate responses--------

If this is a romantic relationship I would think twice about it. His sobriety is fragile and the best thing for him is to get help to focus on his recovery and not a relationship. ..These are questions to ask him. 
He's a person. Treat him as such.
I am a few months into sobriety I would talk to him about it. I like it when people ask me questions. If he's open to talk about it continue to talk about. If he seems to not want to talk about it move on to a different topic. I wouldn't start with "what was rock bottom like?" or something like that but rather ask him about a sponsor step work if he likes the meetings? I don't mind when people drink around me but I do prefer to do things that don't revolve around drinking but with your friend who relapsed I wouldn't drink around him unless he says otherwise. Again this is how I would like it to be done it might be different for your friend. This post shows that you are concerned and aren't a dick I doubt you'll have any problems. I wish you two a happy friendship
Treat him like anyone else. Just my opinion. When it comes to alcohol just don't ask him if he wants a drink. Talk about whatever you want. He's a grown ass man don't feel like you need to protect him in any way. I hate when people say they aren't drinking because I'm not or that they feel bad drinking around me. My alcoholism is MY problem and it is ME that has to deal with it. And finding out more about this "disease" ask him. Alcoholism is different for every alcoholic. Personally I don't consider it a disease to me it is just a weakness and everyone has weaknesses. But if you want to talk to him about it be ready to be completely open about all your problems as well. I guess my advise is to be you do what you do don't act differently because he's around. Would you not eat candy in a movie theater if you saw a movie with a friend who is diabetic? But be ready for a relapse because that is when you need a real friend the most. Hopefully you will never see another. 
Let him tell you about alcoholism from his own perspective.  Let him tell you what he's going through while he's going through it.  There will probably be good days and bad days for him and let him tell you what will and won't cause problems for him on a day-to-day basis.
You can both sit down and read the first 164 pages of [The Big Book](http://www.aa.org/pages/en_US/alcoholics-anonymous) to learn all about what alcoholism is and isn't.
No don't drink around him unless he says it's OK but even that could be untrue. Don't talk about alcohol unless it's in relation to his addiction. Think about it this way... if you were a diabetic on a restricted diet who absolutely loved candy and junk food and you had friends bring over said junk food and eat it in front of you and talk about junk food how would you feel? It's the same with any addiction. ..If you want to learn more to help your friend check out [Al-Anon](http://www.al-anon.alateen.org/) which is a group from friends family and loved ones of alcoholics. Maybe check out some meetings. I don't know where you live but if you Google search: "your city" + "your state" + "Al Anon" you should find what's in your area.
You should really ask him if your drinking in his presence makes him feel shaky.  In sobriety I have been a bartender and learned all kinds of stuff about craft beers and cocktails and it has been no problem for me.  But I also wasn't comfortable being around alcohol until I was 10 years sober.  You really have to ask him how he feels about it.
