-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/5inxgl/frequent_dreams_about_returning_to_the_drink/

Does this happen to anyone else? I wake in the morning overridden with guilt and asking myself was that just a dream or did I just relapse?
----------immediate responses--------

Hey..It has happened to me a few times particularly in early sobriety and quite frankly it is an awful feeling. However as time has passed since my last drink those dreams become more infrequent. I get one every couple/few of months just to keep me on my toes. 
They happen to me too. I asked a guy in my meeting who's been sober 31 years and he said he still gets them every now and then. I take them as a warning not to get complacent
3.5 years sober and I get them once a week.   I chalk it up to being an alcoholic.  ..I've tried to condition myself to enjoy them.  If I'm just going to drink when I dream I may as well have a good time!
 you are normal.  21 years and i had one 3weeks ago. i have also woken and felt ill. i still dream about old jobs old friends and dead people... dont beat yourself up. It is typical. 
Yup i had them early on. I hated the feeling of guilt that came with it. I don't know much about dreams but they seem to reflect what is on my mind
They happen to me ... wake up certain I had had a drink the night before feel the shame. Then realize it was a dream and feel blessed all over again. 
Not uncommon.
I look at it as my mind confirming that drinking again would be bad. I have never had a drinking dream that was "fun" and made me want to drink when I woke up. They are always filled with great internal conflict and guilt and I wake up initially feeling guilty. I know that drinking again would be bad and that plays out in my dreams which is fine with me! Makes me grateful for the fact that I haven't relapsed.
I get them every now and then quite often in the first 12 months (nearly 20 months now). I find I have them more often when I haven't been to a meeting for a while I take it as a sign of how I'm travelling.
