-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/5jb0wj/spreading_the_message/

So I need some advice fellows. I've got a young friend (19) who has finally reached a breaking point-she wants to check out the program. She has struggled with drug abuse but not alcohol as far as I know. So she wants to check out NA. She said she would like to go to a meeting with me but I've never been to an NA meeting. I know it's the same shit different pile but I also have heard some mixed reviews on the NA communities in our city. So would I be doing her a disservice to take her to AA? Should I try and get her to an NA meeting? Is there something NA rooms will offer that AA will not?.Thanks in advance. 
----------immediate responses--------

They are not mutually exclusionary. Take her to both a couple different groups each let her decide. .
She wants to go to an NA meeting?  Okay take her to one.  Keep an open mind for yourself as well...The one thing NA will offer your young friend that AA may not is identification without translation.  For me (and I go to both AA and NA meetings here in my town)  I can sit in an AA meeting and get direct information on what it was like for other drinkers; I don not have to 'translate' the experience of other drugs in order to get the message of recovery.  In NA although 'alcohol is a drug' I sometimes have to do some 'translation' from people who share about the effects of other drugs in order to relate it to my own experience...If for example your friend is into stimulants it would be fairly straightforward for her to identify with the hopelessness that others may share about in an AA meeting but she may not relate to episodes of passing out driving drunk or going into a blackout.  However she would probably understand the agonies of the typical 'tweaker' quite well which a drunk would not be able to relate to except in general terms...My experience with NA is also that the meetings skew younger which might help as well for someone who is 19 and would not feel comfortable in a room full of grey-haired men.
Similar thing in my area. NA is really weak not much solution and you could probably cop drugs at a meeting if you wanted to. I went to NA for a few months but was just hearing about the problem not any solution. I eventually found AA and had success with it but it took me a while to admit I was an alcoholic...I'd say have her try out both but emphasize sticking with the winners. There should be some people with recovery in whatever rooms you go to but in my experience AA has been more supportive and willing to help
I've been to both fellowships. I floated between both when I first got sober over four years ago. Mostly because I didn't have a license was new to the area and NA was within walking distance. I was also a garbage head. It didn't really matter what you put in front of me if I did it and I liked it and it made me feel good I wanted more. More more more. ..Ultimately I decided that AA was my home. I'm from NJ where the opiate epidemic is literally out of control. Not that it isn't elsewhere in the country but the numbers are especially staggering in NJ. Opiates are not really something I could identify with. I know a drug is a drug is a drug but it was hard for me to identify with younger mostly men sharing about how they were 30 days clean off heroin.  In any event I found there to be much more recovery in AA. In my experience people in AA seemed to be living in the solution not sharing war stories and romanticizing their drug use as they seemed to in NA. I also found NA to be a meet market and as a younger ok looking woman men seemed to flock to me which is NOT why I was going to meetings. I wanted some experience strength and hope not a hook up. ..Don't get me wrong I know NA works for plenty of people it just didn't for me. I am a HUGE advocate for AA. I know plenty of addicts that attend AA as their primary fellowship mostly for reasons I listed above. I was heard an addict share from the AA podium "if you want to get clean you go to NA....if you want to CHANGE go to AA" and that always really stuck with me. ..I think you should take your friend to both. Taking them to NA wouldn't be a bad thing I would just investigate maybe with others which are good meetings to go to being that you stated you've heard mixed reviews. Let your friend decide for themselves which would be best for them. 
Go with her to multiple meetings both NA and AA with all different formats. I'm not an alcoholic and rarely ever drank but I am a recovering heroin addict. I've been active in both AA and NA and the meetings can vary greatly from one to another so while you might think one meeting sucks don't automatically assume all NA meetings are like that. ..I'll be completely honest I went into my first serious long-term inpatient/residential rehab when I was 19 and because I was young and a heroin addict I did get some shit once in a while in AA. I learned later from my sponsor to ignore assholes who think they know what's best and try to exclude someone with a substance addiction. Alcohol is an active mind-altering and deadly DRUG. Period. It doesn't matter what the drug-of-choice was because we all experienced similar things related to addiction and all needed help. AA and NA are basically the exact same program just the wording is different because heroin pain pills meth benzos crack coke and all the other hard addictive  drugs weren't anywhere near as popular back when Bill W. created AA. Today probably more than half of the people I've met at AA that are under 40 years-old have their main addiction to heroin or other opiates/opioids once in a while I'll meet someone whose drug-of-choice was crack or coke but usually it's heroin. Your friend share be able to feel comfortable in either or both groups.
I think it's great that she's asking for help and wants you to go with her. I'd go to a couple of NA meetings together and see what she thinks. I got clean from drugs in NA 6 years ago but have had a drinking problem since so now I go to AA meetings daily and NA meetings less regularly. .I absolutely agree with Pizzaforce3. I go to both NA and AA because each group offers me something different but specific to my experience. At the moment daily AA meetings are crucial for me because that's the thing I've been having the most problems with over the past 5 or so years and when I go to NA that speaks directly to my drug experiences and I find it harder to apply it to alcohol..There's no harm in trying out both and I wish your friend the best of luck!
Hiya like everyone has typed go to a variety of meetings. One thing that is the same for all the programs is that more is better. Make it a fun thing y'all do together. Grab food before or after or go for a walk or good coffee before or after or something. Make it a regular healthy event. ..As for the meetings go to a good variety. It is amazing how one club has completely different meetings in the morning than at night. My home group's noon meeting is all white collar but our 6PM is a mix and our 8pm is all no-collar or blue collar...If you live in a big city you will find AA NA CA and even SMART recovery. Go to them all. It is really healthy to get a wide perspective and see that we aren't damaged or bad or stupid or weak. There are thousands of us all over with a disease a bad condition that we can't solve alone.  ..Like /u/pizzaforce3 typed you don't need much translation in CA or NA but keep bringing up the old adage "Listen to the similarities and not the differences". In all these places there are people who are powerless and have unmanageable lives. In all these places there are people who due to some pretty simple steps have found a solution. 
Disservice is probably too strong but yes there is harm that can be done here...The basis of freedom offered by the 12 steps is having a spiritual awakening through working them and passing that on.  If one has no experience with powerless over alcohol its tough if not impossible to pass it on to other alcoholics which is primarily who is in the rooms of AA.  If one is powerless over alcohol and drugs no problem.  If one has no experience with powerlessness when it comes to alcohol they can find themselves in a fellowship based on helping others with no one to help.  Try sponsoring a newcomer alcoholic and not being able to meet them where they are experientially.  Addicts have finely tuned bullshit detectors and are looking for any "they don't understand" cranny to worm their way out of facing the truth.  ..So harm taking a newcomer to an AA meeting?  No much experience can be gained.  However chances of an addict getting and staying sober in AA who has no experience with powerless over alcohol?  In my experience not high...I will say this.  Given that NA can be spotty and long-term sobriety in our area difficult to come by I often work with a newcomer for a while to make certain they don't have ANY experience with the phenomenon of craving or mental obsession before I say they should stick to NA.  In my experience it's very very often there in an addicts history they just don't know what they are looking for.  I've only had one addict who was convinced that he could take or leave alcohol and it was just heroin that he was powerless over.  ..I've attended some NA in my area and again it's spotty.  However I was able to root around and find a couple people in that fellowship that do the work similarly to the way I do asked if I could hand off newcomers interested in their fellowship to them.  It's happened a handful of times now that someone wanted to explore NA and I've been able to point them to someone I would be comfortable sponsoring a member of my family.  They are out there and I don't think hard to find..
