-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/5jvef6/i_screwed_up_im_trying_to_set_things_right_and_i/

I'm 29 years old and after 10 years of heavy alcohol and drug abuse I finally went to treatment and started getting my life on track.  I just passed the 6 month sober mark recently and start a new job in two weeks.  My family is letting me stay with them and have been amazingly supportive and loving I honestly couldn't be more blessed...Although alcohol was my major demon I've also struggled with painkillers and recently I found my mom's stash of pain meds and ate them all.  I cannot describe the amount of shame I feel and am struggling to understand how quickly I went from where I've come to right back to my old ways...Instead of riding down the spiral again I am going to fess up to my actions and apologize to my family and continue striving towards sobriety.  I hope that they don't kick me out but it's a very real possibility.  I would deserve it and will accept whatever reaction they dish out willingly...My dilemma is this; do I come clean tomorrow and ruin the holiday for them or do I wait until after and explain why I waited?  I fear that it will destroy them although I haven't had a drink in 6 months and intend to continue my abstinence this is a major blow to the trust I was building back up with them...Any advice would be greatly appreciated.
----------immediate responses--------

Wait it out least till past th holidays. It's great that you have the realization of the situation  which show how much of a grip and understanding you have of what you have done rest is up to ya some trains you have to catch all by yourself no one else can ride it with you. Best wishes
I would wait until after Christmas at least. New Years no big deal but I would probably tell them Monday or Tuesday next week if you can wait that long. Also provided your mom won't find out all of her painkillers are gone between now and then. It will be better if it comes from you rather than her finding out on her own. ..Are you going to AA or working any kind of program? Do you have a sponsor? Have you started step work? 
I'd tell them today.  I think that as long as you're sincere in your desire to stay clean they shouldn't hold it against you.  Of course I do not know them so I don't know if they will let it go or not.  
Keeping secrets is very stressful. I think I would muster up the courage to tell them now and get it out in the open. ..It sounds like you could use more support. Kudos for six months without alcohol! A .therapist treatment and AA gave me the support I needed. 
Since it changes nothing there's no good reason to spoil their holiday. Coming clean on the theft will make you feel better but our long priority of making ourselves feel better at the expense of others is old behavior. ..Do things differently now. And at least talk to someone before you pull this again.
Thank you so much to everyone for the advice I'm not going to let this be the end of my struggle towards sobriety and happiness simply a hiccup along the road. Happy holidays!
If telling them is going to put a lot of pressure on for the holidays (and you aren't going to relapse) - wait.  If there is ANY chance they could discover it on their own or catch you using or if you need the extra support to stay clean/sober - then fess up now.
[deleted]
