-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/5k6f9d/relapse_after_first_sobriety/

Prior to getting clean I was an alcoholic and also a drug addict doing mostly Percocet and xanax. Went to detox and managed to find my way to a faith-based sober living facility in south Florida. (Coming from hometown in MA). I was doing great. At 19 years old managed to get 6 1/2 months clean. Went through to step 11 had a sponser homegroup relationship with my God all the good stuff... but why? I went home to follow up on a court date and to attend my brother wedding. Why did I stop working my program as soon as I got home? Lost my sobriety for a horrible 2 day run. My sponsor suggests I got a case of the fuck it's. I believe it had to do with reservations. Has anybody else been in a similar situation? What advice do you give for leaving my now "comfort zone" (halfway in Sofla) in the future. What can I do to prevent future relapse. AMA if anything is confusing or need more information.
----------immediate responses--------

I hear all the time that a relapse begins way before the first drink. ..Start again. Go through the steps with your sponsor. ..Maybe next time it won't have to happen. ..Merry Christmas and good luck. 
If you want long term sobriety these slip ups are  part of the deal... Pick up your belongings and start walking down the road again. 
I came out on the other side of every one of my slips still wanting sobriety. I always learned something from them. Diving back into the steps each time and being honest with myself (above all else) gave me a stronger understanding of myself and my alcoholism. At some point it clicked - I guess that's what had to happen for me. This whole sobriety thing has been such a huge learning experience. It's hard for me to really put into words. ..Just give it your all and you'll hit your stride. I guess if I was going to offer any advice it would be to learn from this and keep an open mind. Not everyone's path to sobriety is a straight line. Progress not perfection. 
Why did you go to detox?.Was it your idea?
