-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/5kibqu/is_aa_for_me_i_went_to_my_first_meeting_but_have/

Hi..I am definitely an awesome functioning alcoholic.  ..For over a decade I drank as often as I could while still maintains a job and appearing to most as just a heavy drinker.  ..It got to the point where I was drinking in the morning and got nasty alcohol withdrawal...It took me awhile but I quit for a few years...Within a year or so of quitting I started to smoke pot every day.  Ok days off I smile morning noon and night.  ..Over the last year I have got gotten drunk 3-4 times in events related to my wedding.  ..I don't feel in danger of immediately relapsing into daily/weekly drinking but I do I see myself slowly getting back into it.  ..My daily pot use and lowering of my guard for drinking scares me because my first child was just born.  ..I went to a meeting last week but it felt weird because I've only drank like 5 times over the last 5 years. ..But I want to curb my daily intoxication (marijuana)..Is AA for me?  Sorry it's late and I'm tired.  I'm going to a meeting this Sunday 
----------immediate responses--------

AA is available to anyone who desires to stop drinking or using.  Do you want to stop drinking or using?  If the answer is yes then all you have to do is keep coming back.
It's for you. I found AA very helpful in learning to live sober long-term. That sounds like exactly what you're looking for now.
"The tremendous fact for every one of us is that we have discovered a common solution. We have a way out on which we can absolutely agree and upon which we can join in brotherly and harmonious action. This is the great news this book carries to those who suffer from alcoholism." Pg 17
For me AA is about much more than booze. It's taught me how to face and address my need to escape my life by daily use of mood altering substances. The 12 steps have taught me how to deal with life and the people there support me in my efforts. It's saved my life. Give it a shot it can't hurt!
Check out an NA meeting
it can be right for you. try to be open minded try many different meetings AA/NA different days and times same meeting a few different times to see if it differs. it took me awhile to find my tribe and homegroup. if the god stuff isnt your bag you can insert the word cabbage when they say god and listen to the rest or find a quad a (agnostic/atheist aa) group. there are so many flavors of the program i am surprised when people totally write it off. .some people come for the fellowship and social support. whatever keeps you sober my friend as long as it is healthy. 
Worked for me despite all my reservations issues etc. and yes weed was as big a problem as drink for me..
We've a 3rd tradition that keeps the door open to anyone who has the desire to stop drinking. So you're in as long as you care to be and for any reason that makes sense to you.
If you have to ask... it is for you.
AA can help anyone...it's a way of living that I find infinitely better than the life I was living. Alcoholic or not I feel that the program is a design for living that helps me be the best me. If there is no such thing as moderation then you might be an alcoholic but only you can diagnose yourself. Try drinking in moderation and see if you can &amp;&amp; if you can see if it's not dreadful because you just want more
AA will probably be preferable to NA.  The principles can be applied to any substance.  NA is a bit more rigid in that they consider the use of any substance sometimes even prescribed meds a relapse and the fact that you will never be considered "sober" there if you smoke can be frustrating.
