-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/5m2jc9/mother_ashamed_of_drinking_and_going_to_aa/

My mother has been drinking for 5 years now. She is 48yo and before she never(!) drunk. Her father is an alcoholic and mother is a benzodiazepine addict. .She is a well-educated good looking woman who is prejudiced about AA. I'm from a post-soviet country so the stereotype of an alcoholic shows "a drunk Russian man without teeth". We hardly even use term "alcoholic" but "drunkard". .She started to think about treatment one year ago but shame and social stigma is something that stops her for going from thought to action. It is a progress though because before she was in a complete denial. She didn't wan to be associated with homeless "drunkards". ..Today she showed a slight interest in AA. .How should I talk to her? I'm afraid to take her to a random meeting since she might get easily discouraged. ..She struggles also with depression anxiety and insomnia. She mostly uses alcohol to fall asleep and then she binge-drinks (3-4days)...Thanks for the support!
----------immediate responses--------

If it comes up point out to her that we generally come into AA because our drinking has reached the point of seriously damaging our lives and none of us usually feel wonderful about reaching that point...Funny but I had the same toothless sterotype in mind before getting sober in AA in my 20s. She'll see plenty of members who are better looking and better educated and who drank less and suffered less than she has to this point. And she'll see those who have less going for them than she does. It's a mix of members and she'll soon learn the outside isn't all that important and neither is the age bank balance or social group. If not suffering futher is important to her she may make the effort to find a place in a group close to where she lives. It'll be full of people she can learn from since they know what she needs to know.
Do you have any women's meetings in your area?  I personally find less judgement and more similarities in women's meeting. ..Do you have Alanon in your area?  You both qualify and it might be a less daunting way to begin. ..It is sad that alcoholism is viewed as a moral problem. It is a mental illness and not a problem we can solve on our own. ..I know several women who never drank until their 50's or 60's and went on to have 20 and 30'years of sobriety. ..Best wishes to both of you. 
The meeting I most often frequent is full of 20-50 year old professionals.  ..There are also womens meetings...I say just try it check it out - if she doesn't like it there are alternatives - SMART therapy rehab etc.
I would definitely suggest going to an open meeting if you take her- you can google a meeting directory to find a list of open and closed meetings in her area. Open meetings allow visitors and people who may not yet be ready to call themselves alcoholic. I also like the previous suggestion of going to a women's meeting- my first meeting was a women's meeting at the age of 26 and it rapidly decimated any reservations I had about the type of members I thought were in AA! And I also got a message of hope there. Also our text says if you are going to approach someone about our program it's good to wait until after they've gone on a run and aren't feeling so good- maybe if she's still feeling low now is the time to approach it? If not it may be better to wait until she hits a bottom again. I hope she gets better 
I know how she feels about being reluctant on trying AA for the first the first time. I too was that way my first time who's going to see me and who will they tell but after a few meetings I became more comfortable and the people there were great. There in the same shoes as her and no one is judgmental. People go to help themselves because a lot of them are really in dire straits...Goodluck.WillyBMA
