-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/5mkqog/how_dedicated_to_aa_should_i_be/

I go to meetings about one a week now. I haven't completed the steps. My sponsor continues to warn me that until I learn steps I'm in danger of relapse but I'm almost 7 months sober and feeling fine. I also wouldn't classify myself as a compulsive drinker. I drink too much yes. But I'm a high functioning high bottom alcoholic. I've never drank myself out of home employment family. I'm not kidding myself I'm finished with alcohol. I like my life the way it is now sober I just don't think I need the kind of maintenance people other alcoholics are suggesting. Am I really in imminent danger here?
----------immediate responses--------

In my experience it depends on whether or not you're as alcoholic as the men described in the beginning chapters of the Big Book. ..There's plenty of people that simply have a drinking problem that are welcome in AA but don't require the 12 steps to maintain sobriety. I'm not one of them I know that. I had 4 1/2 years sober and let up on my spiritual action ((1011&amp;12) and I was drunk within a couple months. Nothing happened to bring me there. Just drank out of nowhere and in less than 4 months I was worse off than I had ever been. Took me almost 2 years to get back. But I know PLENTY of people that aren't as "alcoholic" as me that claim membership to AA. They're perfectly happy and sober. ..It's your life man (or woman). Do what you want no one but you has to live it. ..I will say this though. In my experience there's attending meetings and then there's actually being "in" AA. I don't believe anyone's actually given AA a shot unless they've done the steps. At the same time. Few but the truly desperate are willing to actually do them. That's my experience so take it as you will. 
I don't think you are in "imminent danger". Working the steps is so much more than just not drinking. Doing them improved my life and taught me more about myself than I ever wanted to know. The insight I gained had a positive impact on my daily life. Personal growth is important. You have lots to lose and everything to gain by working the steps. If you want a version without the god-stuff pm me and I'll send it. 
There is no need to complete the steps because you didn't go to AA to get indoctrinated into a religious cult and to do free advertising for the rehab industry. What will happen next is that they will tell you you'll probably relapse and then the next time you drink (if you happen to decide to) you will see them like psychic geniuses or something and hand your will and your life over to telling everyone how you'd be dead without Bill W. You can do free group therapy for the rehab industry while they rake in money. thebusinessofrecovery.com You can also spend the rest of your life denying that AA culture is really screwed up by default and badmouthing a film like the13thstepfilm.com just like a Scientologist says Leah Remini is a liar trying to make money by attacking an 'innocent' religious group. 
Great. Here's the thing...AA meetings are not where you get RECOVERY from alcohol. In the PROGRAM you'd learn about "perfecting and enlarging your spiritual life through work and self-sacrifice for others.".If just not drinking is good for you? Cool. You're probably not an alcoholic. In fact the program (Found in the first 164 pages of [The Big Book](http://www.aa.org/pages/en_US/alcoholics-anonymous) (start at iiii) it suggests if you can drink go ahead...in fact go out and give it a try "We do not like to pronounce any individual as alcoholic but you can quickly diagnose yourself Step over to the nearest barroom and try some controlled drinking. Try to drink and stop abruptly. Try it more than once. It will not take long for you to decide if you are honest with yourself about it." pg. 31. But remember this of all the alcoholics who WANT recovery? About 5% (only) are able to do so. Not drinking's a cute parlor trick but if you want to grow? Check out the program...it's a great resource even for non-alcoholics and no where in the program (First 164 pages) does it say to go to meetings. 
Give it a shot bud. Don't be afraid and you are allowed to take chances. It's all about whats best for what you perceive for yourself.
I was in the exact same boat. Wasn't drinking every day had a good job family... I hadn't lost anything...yet. It was coming. So I decided to work those steps you know just in case. Turns out it was a wise decision for me. What do you have to lose?
I had never drank myself out of anything either.  I had a job a boyfriend  a nice car place to live all that stuff.  I had never gotten in trouble with the law and was high functioning.  I got sober for about 4 months had dabbled in the steps and was also feeling fine.  Didn't think I'd drink...Then I decided to drink one night.  I mean why not?  Everything was fine.  I woke up the next day and guess what? Everything was fine.  I didn't drink too much I wasn't hungover all was well.. .The next night I wrapped my car around a tree in a blackout ..I no longer had all the things that made me feel different from the people in the AA meetings.  And nothing was fine. ..Give the steps a try.  I finally had to just give in to the fact that I wasn't different...I'm 5 years sober now and living a life I never dreamed possible.  I honestly hardly attend meetings anymore but those steps were key...The steps helped me quit drinking yes.  But really the steps made me get really honest with myself.  Which has allowed me to pursue my dreams ..You've got nothing to lose and everything to gain.
Most of us do less as time goes along. The difficulty with that in your situation is that less than what you're doing at present may prove not to be enough of a solution for your condition...You weren't terribly impacted before but should you resume drinking that may not be the case. Understand that those who drank away their homes employment family were most often earlier at a point where those things were intact. They were at your point and then moved along to a different point with further drinking...You might return to AA and become the example that functioning high bottom alcoholics with a few months away from their last drink are very certain they would never allow themselves to sink to implying that their desires regarding their bottom are a factor and are worth more than spit which is pretty funny...Evaluate the course of action that is most practical and beneficial for your well-being and follow that course. Or at least be aware of what you're gambling with and make the concious decision that you're willing to lose those good and important things that are in your life in order to avoid a bit of effort and time spent on your recovery. Someone who is still carrying around an extreme amount of selfishness would take that gamble right now...and maybe choose differently the next time around...
Make it the FIRST 10% of your life.
Listen to Joe &amp; Charlie online. Try their big book study you can go through it in a weekend. 
Every single one of us is in danger of relapsing just as much as every single one of us is in danger of dying. That is to say you could be killed tomorrow crossing the street. It is suggested that you work the steps. It's a program that helps you fix the real problem. Alcohol is just a symptom. What I don't understand about the whole "work the steps" if you work the steps are you secured a spot not going back to drinking? I think the point is if you are working on being a better person it is likely to pay off and keep you wanting to be a better person. Instead of saying "fuck it". Just my take. Also  I would suggest getting rid of the attitude of "high bottom". This is just my opinion but it makes it sound like "well it wasn't that bad". If it wasn't bad why stop? If it is bad then it doesn't matter if your bad is better or worse than someone elses. That's how I look at it. 
There is a general fear that I have found circulating in AA and it is the concept that if you pick up you will die. This might be true for few a possibility for a lot and completely wrong for some but it tends to be the predominant concept...My believe is alcoholism or substance dependency is not as simple as just having a disease And due to this concept the solution generally offered (AA) is somewhat painted as black and white ( do steps meetings service sponsor). all I would say is that wether your solution is AA therapy connection will power control avoidance gambling or whatever you choose stay open to other possibilities and the fact that you may need help along the way. The other thing I'd say to remember is that in order to go from drinking dependently to not drinking something had to change. For some it may be the simple change of accepting that they can never drink again others it is devoting there life to AA some get counselling others go on medication and some change environment. ..Long story short. Be honest with yourself open to different possibilities ideas and solution and be willing to do something about it. 
(Maybe bad formatting or spelling I'm using my phone)..I relapsed at 11 month sober in my 9th step because I didn't want to make my amends. I needed to do all 12 getting my "spiritual awakening" (I'm agnostic) and starting to sponsor to feel the real difference. ..Now I'm not afraid of alcohol and drugs I don't miss them. Which I was/did before. ..But I've heard others who never did the steps or just some of them who are still living today. What I believe is that the kind of alcoholic I am cannot stay sober without the 12 steps the ones who do have a alcoholproblem that differs from mine. What you are and what you need are up to you and if you are honest it should be pretty clear. ..If it's not maybe talk to your sponsor about your first step and ask abut their 12th? Because in the chapter about working with others (which your sponsor should have read) it says that "if you are satisfied that he is a real alcoholic". ..For me that's a comfort when doubting the steps. My very much (sober) alcoholic sponsor thinks I am an alcoholic. With her experience and mine I don't doubt I am an alcoholic. And AA didn't keep me sober without the steps therefore I should keep doing them...Good luck with everything! I hope you find the clarity you need to proceed with whatever you need to be happy joyous and free!
Thank you all for the comments and advice. I should clarify it's not that I'm not open to working the steps but my schedule is full with other responsibilities. I have work two children under 3 and a wife that works. Very little time to work on me and when I do I'm stricken with guilt that I haven't spent time with my children or supporting my wife. That's all. The steps are challenging I will admit that and sometimes make me uncomfortable. I really enjoy my sponsor's companionship and advice but his children are grown and he's self-employed. He has a lot of time whereas I feel like I do not.
I relapsed 4 years into sobriety and I was working the steps. Except I wasn't sponsoring anyone but most people I know don't sponsor and remain sober. The point is it's a crap shoot . But you should work the steps they're not time consuming and you can do them in a weekend like the early aas used to do.
Why not go full force and see how it feels? ..I was in a similar scenario said I would do the deal for one year. After working all my steps the program attracted me and I want to stay. 
&gt;I like my life the way it is now sober..And what about when that stops happening?..It's easy to stay sober when you want to stay that way and things seem to be going your way.  But when the inevitable reversal happens and you hit a roadblock then what?  How much of a foundation have you given your recovery so that when times are tough you can still stay sober?..Six months sober (almost seven) is the very point at which so many of us 'flunk out' and start down the road to drinking again.  And much like a high-school dropout the lack of pressure and structure can at first seem liberating but the realities of lack of knowledge start to show up within a couple months.  Some people of course thrive without formal schooling but the statistics seem to indicate that most people do not and the odds are against them if they don't continue their education...It is possible that you really don't need constant oversight and that your life will continue on its upward trajectory without meetings and working steps with a sponsor.  And then again maybe it will start to unravel very quickly...The point is at six months *it is still too early to tell* and you are gambling with your recovery if you bail out now and attempt to go it alone.  You actually *don't know* whether you are serious about stopping drinking or kidding yourself about it because it is highly unlikely that your decision for sobriety has been put to any real test at this point...Your level of dedication to AA should be in direct proportion to the level of hope you feel about the future.  If you truly feel that your life is about as good as its going to get and that any future efforts on your part to say complete the steps or earn a year medallion are going to not bring any sense of accomplishment or additional serenity to your life then by all means quit while you're ahead and save yourself the struggle.  But if there is even a glimmer of promise that by making an honest effort you could dramatically improve yourself and your future stick it out...My experience is that six months or so is about as long as most people can stay sober on fear of the past.  It sounds like to me that you've lost any fear of what you went through to get to the rooms since you now describe yourself as non-compulsive and high-functioning...But any additional sobriety within the structure of AA's 12 steps must be based on hope for the future.  Personally I still believe that working the steps will continue to bring as-yet-unforeseen benefits to me and so I continue to participate in meetings and work with my sponsor.  I have hope - more will be revealed...Only you can decide if AA is a hopeless or fruitful endeavor.  This and only this should determine your level of 'dedication.'
