-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/5o7s6x/three_days_sober_struggling/

I have been attending a few AA meetings and I can barely relate to anything people say. I feel like an outsider and I just want to get drunk and loaded but I don't want to die so I'm kind of caught between a rock and a hard place. 
----------immediate responses--------

Keep going share exactly that at a meeting. Don't leave immediatley some one will most likely talk to you after. Get a fucking sponsor.  Time takes time but it's worth it. This will kill you if you don't work the program.
AA or not you have to fight the urges and cravings to drink.. It sux I know. I've been there. Cling to the people that have been there before. Sometimes you have to break things down into hours. When you go to bed sober and wake up sober you'll feel great. If you relapse you'll feel  like you have no power over this .  And like the other guy said .. Get back into AA. If you have to go to 3-4 meetings a day  that's what should be done.  You want this sobriety stuff --correct ?
I had to try some different meetings  are you young? you might go to a young people's meeting.  gay? gay meeting could be cool.  just a regular person? maybe go to all the meetings you can until you find one you like. ..I had to work to listen for similarities and ignore the differences at first.  I treated my alcoholism with drugs as well as alcohol and I didn't think plane old alcoholics had much to teach me.  I identified more in NA at first but found my home in AA eventually.  ..Attending only a few meetings is a good way to stay an outsider attending a shitload of AA meetings and getting a sponsor and working the steps is a good way to become a member of AA and reap the benefits mainly a life that doesn't suck without alcohol.  
First off - three days - good for you!!!..I kept tripping up when I first was trying to get sober because I had a really hard time imagining not drinking.  I couldn't fathom going the rest of my life without a drink.  And as I figured that I'd relapse sometime down the road I might as well relapse RIGHT NOW...But I learned at an AA meeting that I didn't have to worry about staying sober for the rest of life all I had to do was worry about staying sober today.  I'll worry about staying sober tomorrow when it comes.  And if today all twenty four hours of it is too long a period I can narrow that down and simply worry about staying sober for the next hour.  Or heck for that matter I can worry about staying sober for this minute or just RIGHT NOW...All AA meetings are one of just a few formats.  Depending on where you live some types are more popular than others but the two basic ones are speaker meetings and discussion meetings.  Speaker meetings typically have the seating all facing in the same direction and one member stands in front of everyone else and shares their story of experience strength and hope.  Discussion meetings typically have members sitting around in a circle or even haphazardly and instead of having a speaker they will share the floor with each other discussing topics that are somehow chosen...There's all kinds of people at AA meetings but we all have a shared responsibility to keep each other sober.  There has to be some friendly sorts - usually hanging around the doors are some people shaking hands for example.  Talk to them explain you're new and people would be happy to show you the ropes.  ..Get yourself a copy of our text Alcoholics Anonymous or as we call it The Big Book and give it a read - it will resonate with you!  It will also help you with some of what people are talking about...Alcoholics Anonymous is the granddaddy of all Twelve-Step programs - the entire program is based around twelve steps that you work through to achieve contented sobriety.  Anyone can stop drinking but if you don't do anything to fix WHY you were drinking in the first place I promise you that your life won't be much fun!  But by working through the steps you will manage to get yourself in a much better place...Alcoholics Anonymous is a spiritual program and AAers feel that our sobriety is contingent upon our spiritual condition.  If all is right with us and our universe odds are we will stay sober right now.  ..Enough from me but please feel free to PM me if I might be of further help.  I am profoundly thankful to Alcoholics Anonymous and its members that have graced my life and I keep what I have by giving it away! 
You can do it! Keep coming back!!
You got this.  I promise you won't look back and regret getting sober.  If you relapse I am 100% sure you will have a life filled with regret. ..We have all been there.  ..You've got this. 
Great job taking the hardest step. Have you tried another meeting? It can make a huge difference. Try to stay busy. Exercising has been great for me. Also reading the big books lots of stories that I can relate to even though I am a younger person. I also enjoy the living sober book. Even this sub has helped me out a lot. Keep working it!   
I find it useful to listen for just one helpful thing at every AA meeting. Just one thing one person says that rings true. If I am listening for differences I'll find them. If I'm listening for similarities I'll find them too. ..Please believe me when I say that if you keep putting those sober days together in a row it will get easier. You get used to being sober then you start to appreciate it then you begin to actually enjoy it. ..You can do this.
You are exactly where I was at when I was three days sober.  I was trying to understand what people in AA were trying to tell me but I felt isolated and cornered and nothing made sense...There is something that Bill W. the founder of AA called "the language of the heart" and modern clinicians call "the language of recovery."  It is the use of common everyday terms in unfamiliar ways to express thoughts and feelings particular to those who have struggled with alcoholism and addiction and have found a way out...When people spoke of 'obsession of the mind' and 'spiritual awakening' I had no idea what to make of it.  Same with 'triggers' and 'relapse.'..In order to understand what was being said I in effect had to learn a new language one that utilized concepts completely foreign to me.  Once I learned those concepts I understood the language.  This of course continues over time and my understanding of the 'language' becomes clearer as I progress in my recovery...You too will begin to understand and relate to what is being said if you continue to not drink and attend meetings.  While the 'hard place' (the disease of alcoholism and the desire to drink) never just goes away we can together learn to stand upon that rock (the desire to live fully) instead of being stuck under it...Kudos to your three days (four and 2 burritos according to comments) and thanks for posting.
Keep going. Just keep going and don't drink between meetings. Go to as many meetings as you need to. Share and people may relate to you instead. Worry about the rest later; for now just go. 
Meetings are a good place to go to meet people so you can ask for help. You will not "feel better" or recover from alcoholism by going to meetings. If you haven't already begin by educating yourself about the program of recovery that's found in our 'basic text book' called The Big Book. In there tells you how to find recovery and the wonderful promises you seek. Go to meetings to ask people how to do THIS. You can read the book on your own but it will seem a bit weird and "old fashioned" at first. After all it was originally published around 1939. Go to meetings with questions about THIS. Ask those following the program for guidance. Start at page iiii the beginning of [The Big Book](http://www.aa.org/pages/en_US/alcoholics-anonymous). Read the first 164 pages. That's where THE PROGRAM is. After that are stories from other alcoholics. Maybe you can relate to those stories? Don't go to meetings trying to relate to what people say. Learn about the program they all seek. 
I learned this behavior. I'm losing to it. 
Keep going to meetings. Just show up and be there and it will get better. Those first days are very hard but drinking only makes it worse. Good luck. You can do it. 
"I just want to get drunk and loaded but I don't want to die"..Allow me to have a quick share with you: I'm a 27 year old male started drinking about 16 years old. By the time I was a few months off my 18th birthday I landed myself in maximum security prison for 6 months. I went again at 19 for another 9 months. I've broken both my arms my nose 3 times I've had **that many stitches** I wouldn't even bother trying to remember them all. I've been to rehab twice and also a detox unit this started when I was about 24...I drink purely for effect I wanna get fucked up. I wanna get fucked up and get extremely reckless. If I don't black out have a fight steal a car and go for a joy ride wake up with broken bones or without a story to tell it was a complete waste of time. *don't offer me a beer* offer me the fucking case...This was how I drank until about 24 when alcohol thankfully started to attack my nervous system and I would wake up with severe panic attacks and anxiety and would need to drink to chase it away...I ruined friendships relationships jobs courses my life was fucked. .I didn't really get AA my Dad is 35 years sober but I never thought AA was for me I thought it was a bunch of old pathetic fucks with nothing better to do but AA saved my life. I really hope you're still sober mate if you aren't get back on board and get to meetings keep going until you enjoy them.
