-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/5ojgvi/is_relapse_part_of_recovery/

I relapsed since New Year's Eve and haven't been able to stop. I'm back to drinking behind my love ones backs stopped going to meetings because I feel ashamed and don't know what to tell my sponsor. I feel like I'm going to lose it again and lose everything after spending this time regaining everyone's trust and rebuilding relationships. Any advice would be appreciated.
----------immediate responses--------

Hello and good job reaching out. ...I wouldn't say relapse is part of recovery.   A more accurate statement would be: Relapse is very common in recovery. ...I myself had many false starts.  And with each relapse I sank lower and lower until I just couldn't stand it anymore.  It was sobriety or suicide. ...I hope you get back on track.  Just don't have that first drink of the day; and force your feet to move you to a meeting.  ....
I relapsed after 3 years and I was going to meetings drunk.  Now I'm sober 40 days keep coming
Relapse can be part of recovery - sometimes however it's just a way back down the rabbit hole...It seems that you have decided that you want to continue on your sober journey.  If this is the case - I would simply just come clean - be open honest and willing to do whatever your sponsor suggests.
Relapse happens. Some people think it is a normal part of recovery. Does not have to be. ..The problem some have is simply that they call their sponsor AFTER they have gone to the liquor store. The trick is to call before. ..Best of luck. 
I am pretty sure that every meeting I've ever attended had people in it who had relapsed at some point.  And every time I've ever seen anyone say in a meeting that they've relapsed they received support.  I bet it would be the same for you.
Relapse allowed me to fully concede to my innermost self that I am an alcoholic. I didn't think I could stop drinking the second time but once I admitted that I was an alcoholic my obsession was gone. Talk out loud to someone (friend/family) or something (high power) that can be so powerful. 
By the time I got to AA I was ready for AA so I have not yet relapsed. However in the 10 years that preceded my arrival I became convinced I could moderate over and over and over again. These experiments were probably necessary to my final admission that I was powerless over alcohol. But don't let relapse stop you from getting to a meeting keep coming back they say you are welcome and we understand.  
I've been on and off the wagon. It's tiring but it's not the end of the world.  I've learned from those episodes. Something triggered happened but you deserve another try.  Don't be ashamed.  That is the alcohol lieing to you. You CAN do this. 
I'm a first time "winner". I put winner in quotes because I don't believe it's winning until I die sober. That being said relapse doesn't have to happen. Rarely have I seen a person fail who has thoroughly followed our path. Those who do not recover are people who cannot or will not completely give themselves to this simple program. When I was two weeks sober I was already plotting my next drink. Lucky for me I was in rehab and I stayed in Alcoholics Anonymous to hear the solution. 
Is relapse part of recovery? I don't think it has to be but it usually is. Everyone in those rooms understands what you're going through and sympathizes. You will be welcomed back. 
I have met hundreds of alcoholics  and I have met one... ONE... that made it the first time. ..Having said that I have also met several chronic relapsers that seem to have an "Oh well" attitude. ..Relapses can be a useful part of recovery but only if you make them a learning experience. What's the point of all that turmoil and misery if you don't take away some growth and strength? 
My last relapse was my last  it started December 192007 and ended January 23rd2008 near death. It's hard to stop drinking once you relapse-- that's why it's never a good idea to start again. 
Relapse is as much a part of recovery as car wrecks are a part of driving.  Not required but common and everybody should take precautions against the possibility...What is also common is the guilt and shame you are experiencing.  but again it is not required.  There is no 'fault' when it comes to relapse just as some car accidents do not have a 'mistake' to blame someone for...Pain is inevitable suffering is optional.  Call your sponsor and tell them what happened.  Following their suggestions would be wise but again optional.  Perhaps just letting those who you know exactly what is going on would be a start towards removing the remorse.
Important not to let a slip become a fall...Ring your sponsor they've earned that much.
You may find it impossible to stop again for many more months. The idea that drinking or not is your call to make is an old idea that implies a power over booze that may not be in your arsenal. ..Stay as safe as you can until you can reach out for an effective solution. When an alcoholic is drinking their lives are impacted negatively in various ways so you can reasonably expect some unpleasantness...If you're very fortunate you'll be forced by awful outside circumstances to eventually stop again. The price of another drinkie can be surprisingly high. What the cost will be to you will be answered in time.
Getting sober for 'them' never works. They probably know already. Also meetings don't cure you. Study [The book](http://www.aa.org/pages/en_US/alcoholics-anonymous). Start at page iiii and stop at 164. Maybe you're not an alcoholic. 
A talk about relapse prevention https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WdV2iUAoPQA
