-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/5ouwkf/im_a_4th_year_medical_student_struggling_with_an/

I'm pretty much a functional alcoholic. As the title states I'm in my 4th year of medical school. Drinking never affects my days. But at night I'll say to myself "ok 1 beer" and I end up killing the 6 pack. Again it has not caused any issues in my life thus far but I know I cannot keep living like this without serious medical issues (duh! I'm a doctor pretty much). I just needed to vent. I created a throwaway account just for this. None of my friends and family know about this issue at all. To them I'm just a bright kid on his way to success. Which I am. You know what else I am? Lonely. I just want to talk. Please comment.
----------immediate responses--------

The first step is literally "we admitted we were powerless over alcohol that our lives had become unmanageable." The first part is obvious as you said you try to have one and you have six. Unmanageability is most easily spotted by abstaining from alcohol for a while. If your life and well being improves you are probably a moderate drinker. If it gets worse and more unmanageable it's possible you can be an alcoholic. That's something you are going to have to figure out on your own since no one can tell you if you're an alcoholic or not. For me drugs and alcohol posed such a problem in my life I couldn't hold a job or pass school. Even after I stopped using it was hard for me to show up to my life and even with 2.5 years sober it gets pretty unmanageable sometimes but the important thing is that I don't have to drink or use over it. Best of luck and I hope you get some feedback you're looking for.
I suggest you go to an alcoholics anonymous meeting and talk to a real person - IN PERSON. It's really not the same writing on a message board because the empathy is implicit...Your drinking maybe okay now but after a while it starts to bite off more time and in worse circumstances I sincerely hope you find your way to a group the entire reason we exist is to help each other stop and stay stopped.
Something to think about. One of the things that held me back from getting help for a long time was justifying and rationalizing my behavior because i was successful. What youre achieving in life has nothing to do with your illness my friend. I can tell you this without a shadow of a doubt. IF you attack this issue youre having with alcohol now youll save yourself A LOT of heartache and trouble. And on top of that youll be a happier less lonely person. Tame this monster before it takes everything from you. Please. PM me if you want to talk anytime. I wish you ALL the success and happiness in the world!
Hi.  So there is actually a subset of AA for people in your situation...https://www.idaa.org/..Nothing wrecks a medical career like a drinking problem.  I'm an attorney; I don't practice any more (I hated it) and I came really close to getting in some serious trouble.  I could have lost my license to practice...I'm not saying you're an alcoholic.  Nobody but you can make that decision.  I'm not saying AA is for you; AA isn't for everybody (although IMHO it is for most people).  All I'm saying is that you need to take some sort of action before you shred your future.  
Get help now before it gets worse.  I went to my doctor 15 years ago and told her I wanted to go to rehab.  She said your problem isn't bad enough.  Gee thanks. 
A sponsee of mine lost his dad (a surgeon) when he was a child of 10. The doc broke his neck falling off the top bunk in a TX jail during a seizure. He'd been locked up for public drunk...But good news on the kid at least. He's sober 27 years in AA and owns and runs an international firm...If you find a way to remain stopped you'll avoid some unpleasantness and be less of a burden to those who care about you.
A sponsee of mine lost his dad (a surgeon) when he was a child of 10. The doc broke his neck falling off the top bunk in a TX jail during a seizure. He'd been locked up for public drunk...But good news on the kid at least. He's sober 27 years in AA and owns and runs an international firm...If you find a way to remain stopped you'll avoid some unpleasantness and be less of a burden to those who care about you.
I wish I had gotten a handle on this at your age and stage. Instead I went on and got worse for a few more decades  until I lost a job and a relationship. ..I was a super high achiever at an ivy league school so no one would take me seriously when I said I was worried. ..I even called my dad (a physician) drunk once for help  because my stomach felt like it was eating itself and he hung up on my saying "I'm not going to talk to you when you're like this." ..Pretty much the only people who will understand your problem is alcoholics.  Psychologists and psychiatrists try  but it's not like first-hand knowledge. A "normie's" opinion is likely to be waayy off. ..I still have friends that are completely indignant that anyone would consider me an alcoholic.  They're just intensely loyal. ..Look at it this way: what do you have to lose if you keep drinking? (career  dreams  health  relationships) ..What do you have to lose if you stop? (not much) ..There's a really good story about a doc in the Big Book called "Physician  Heal Thyself." (p 301). If you're interested you can download the book online really easily. ..I would really trust your gut.  You are a smart person  and know yourself better than anyone else.  If you think you might have a problem  it's very likely that you're right. ..Good luck in everything.  PM me anytime if you'd like to chat further. .
Please send me a private message if you want to talk. I am a physician in the program. It has changed my live. 
