-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/5ow5nx/relapsed_please_help/

After nearly 5 years of consecutive sobriety I have relapsed for about a month now. Opiates and cocaine so I will have withdraws when I stop. But that's the least of my worries. If my wife finds out she will leave me. She has said it in the past. And she will take our 2 year old son with her. He's my world and I cannot stand to lose either of them. ..Is it wrong of me to go through withdraws and just never tell her or my family? I would tell my sponsor and reignite my passion for my recovery but I just cannot tell them this happened. It would devastate everyone. 
----------immediate responses--------

My daughter said if I relapsed she would stop loving me I relapsed she did. ..It says to make amends except where to do so would injure someone. ..Are you willing to continue to do what is required to stay sober? If not and you are going to let the addiction take over maybe your child is better off with out an addict parent. ..I am not being judgmental here  I am just throwing out thoughts. If my daughter was supportive our lives would be easier but she's not. ..Good luck.  
You're putting way too much pressure on yourself.  The hiding exacerbates the whole issue.  Do whatever you need to get back on the saddle. A relapse is just a blip on the screen.  Just don't continue on with the relapse. You don't have to go through a whole year or more. Get help now. 
This isn't AA but neither are coke and opiates...  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=10Y1_Bte6tU  ..This one is about relapse prevention https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WdV2iUAoPQA..Good luck!!
My mom went through rehab and goes to AA meetings every day and has been sober for close to 5 years. She doesn't have Reddit but she strongly felt the urge to speak through me on this thread. She said that you should definitely tell your wife what happened and the only reason you're not is out of fear. She says you did nothing wrong and that you're not special or unique because you relapsed because it happens to people ALL THE TIME. She said to talk to your sponsor and he /she should be able to help you through it or give you the advice you need. She said you shouldn't lie or you're only going to be sucked in deeper to drugs and alcohol again and pure going to try and hide it even more. That's just her 2 cents but let me know if you'd like to talk about the whole issue or if you'd even like to talk to her about it. She's a great human and has helped people through a lot of shit these past 5 years.
