-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/5pukvh/3_months_sober_but_i_feel_a_relapse_closing_in/

I drink to escape from myself. Lately my depression has waned; however just this week it's come back quite fiercely. I feel utterly useless and life feels pointless. I take no interest or pleasure in anything. These are the perfect conditions for me to drink so I can feel something. They're also the perfect conditions for suicide but there are other subs for that. ..My sponsor and I are just starting the 4th step and he assures me working through this and always remembering and strengthening my hold on the 3rd step will help alleviate my issues; however I'm not sure. I feel hopeless...Do you think working the 4th step is going to help me get out of this rut before I relapse or end it all?
----------immediate responses--------

Are you receiving medical treatment for your depression?
hey I am coming close to six months and I just started step four you are doing great! I used to do nothing all day but feel bad for myself. Then I started running at first it was just 10 min at a time but now I am running 25 miles a week. It saved me got me out of my house. I never really like to before but it allows me to escape and let my mind go. It also provides a good excuse for not drinking to "normies" 
I am not doing the steps. But it sounds to me like you are planning to relapse.  You're going to drink/use again then what? Is it going to make your life better or worse. ..I don't know you but I know you deserve better.  Maybe you don't believe that but it's true.  No one is living a coca cola commercial.  Life can suck. We have to make the best of it. ..Depression is hard but think about getting treatment. You have to save yourself. 
You'll either drink or complete your 4th. Seems that you'd know what your choice will be better than I would.
You have to believe it..The program doesn't "cure" you it only shows YOU a better way of looking at life if you want to..4th step will not get you out of anything..It's up to YOU..The word "Faith" is listed on 21 pages in The Big Book from pages xiv to 117..Find them. Read the book and find every instance on every page. Write down every sentence FAITH is used on every page..Let me know how it goes. THAT is where the 'work' is done. Learn WHY before trying to get relief.
I saw a psychiatrist and was evaluated and am treated for clinical depression. It helps me stay sober. 
This is a great talk on relapse prevention https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WdV2iUAoPQA..Here are 11 talks on step 4 .https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLCoNWFgxjiSUaPqazk_GDAWe0Ur-sh8-1..This one is a comedy routine and may give you some relief and a different perspective.  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d6FTJIY5IbE.
First year of recovery was an emotional roller coaster for me.  I could barely distinguish my depression from my anxiety from my mania.  I completed my 4th Step in month 4 and did 5 6 and 7 in month 5.  Shortly thereafter (I didn't know it until a few months later when I could look backwards) my mental obsession was lifted and I haven't had a troubling thought about drinking in the almost 13 years since.  Best wishes in powering through and if you are thinking or feeling suicidal please seek emergency medical treatment.
Do your 4th. Whatever is bothering you now. Takes 30 mins to an hour with your sponsor. Then do your 5th the next day. The steps are not rocket science and you can die from this seemingly hopeless illness. It does not take months to take he steps and recover from alcoholism. I am proof. Willingness is the key. 
Grab a piece of paper and a pen. Right now. ..Write down a list of everyone that ever pissed you off. Don't think just write. In a column straight down the page. Mom Dad Timmy Jenny the jerk from that place... ..AFTER your column of names only grab another sheet. This is your sex sheet. Names straight down the page. Bam bam bam... Again don't think just write. Anyone in life you hurt or hurt you as it pertained to sex intimacy etc; straight gay fling affair or whatever. Names only! Straight down the page. ..Nice job keep it going!..Okay now grab another sheet of paper - same thing again; only this time it's the school the bank lawyers jail politicians the state NASCAR - any THING that ever pissed/pisses you off. Feels good - get it out! Less thinking more writing!..Okay great - nice work. You're feeling it. ..Now the fun one; grab another sheet of paper or 5 - and write down THE WEIRD. ALL OF IT. Any and everything from the earliest you can remember to stuff you're thinking about doing in the future. Sex with a goat? Stole a Barbie from little Timmy? Had some weird thing happen at summer camp? Uncle dirty playing good touch bad touch... DON'T HOLD BACK! Get it all down on paper. Everything! ..Less thinking. More writing. ..Don't stop until you're done. Now after you think you're done. Take a 3 minute pause. Holy crap it's been hours! You're an AA step machine. Give yourself a hug. Smile. Breathe. Relax. ..Now.... that one thing you're holding back on - that one thing you swore you'd take to your grave - WRITE IT DOWN. NOW. ..Wasn't so bad. Feel a little better too...You should. You just did the single hardest part of the step work; you took ACTION. ..NOW... You're fired up full of sobriety so take all your nutty lists to your sponsor TODAY and work through the rest just like it's outlined in the book. The what why and how... That stuff is a piece of cake. The framework the hard stuff you've already done it!..Done properly all 12 steps are knocked out in 3 days or less. It's called the Akron method; how Bill and Bob and the old-timers did it back in the late 30s. ..After 5 you'll immediately work 6&amp;7. Your 8th step list comes from your 4th step lists being fine tuned and whittled down by your sponsor and then really the rest is up to you and your HP. Make direct amends then moving forward 101112 is a daily operation. ..Remember this is 100% a program of ACTION. 
