-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/5q1glb/my_sponsee_just_died/

Of course I had to find out through cryptic facebook posts...I'd been sponsoring this guy for the last couple of years on and off. He disappeared a few months ago after a bad relapse when I had to take him to the hospital. Sat and talked with him one more time after that. I tried to get him to come back. He did but only for a few weeks....I'm heartbroken. I loved the guy like he was family...I called my sponsor as soon as I found out. He reminded me to pray and meditate and do my nightly review. He reminded me to keep trying to get closer to knowing God's will for me and ask for the power to carry it out. He told me to go talk to newcomers at my home group. That sounds like the right thing to do but it's a painful thought...It's so hard right now. I want to be angry. I want to cry. I want to call him and keep remembering that I can't...I feel so lost. I don't have any obsession to drink. I'm just questioning myself. I really feel like I gave him everything I had. I know that no human power could have saved him. My mind is just racing...I love you guys. I'm so grateful for the fellowship.
----------immediate responses--------

I'm so sorry to hear that. I think it's especially hard to lose someone when you know there's a solution right there that for whatever reason they can't or won't or don't choose. It sounds like you really did try to help as much as you could have and I would guess that this sponsee probably had some sense of your caring as well even though his sickness.
Seems like you really cared a lot about him I bet he really valued your companionship 
You sound like an incredible sponsor and you did everything you could. It sucks that they were never able to reach out and get the help they needed. I hope you continue this service I hope to find a sponsor who cares as much as you do someday. 
So sorry for your loss. We recently lost a strong member of our community. Thankful he dies with 9 years of sobriety. ..I feel your loss. 
I'm very truly sorry. Just pray and stuff.  Idk I'm 30 days sober and people like me need people like you. Without people who really gave a damn I'd be dead right now. If not literally then at least figuratively. Pull it together buddy because there may be a newcomer like me in your next meeting that needs your help. I'm not saying don't grieve I'm just saying don't fall apart. ..Look at me I'm all tears now. God loves you and I love you and your sponsee is at the great meeting in the sky. 
awwww shit...every time I hear of something like this I wonder "how did I make it?" I was as stupid and stubborn as I could possibly be.  ..I don't know am agnostic but acknowledge miracles that happened to get me here... This guy's guardian angel was stuck in traffic or something....
This is a tough situation and it feels so discouraging...I was sponsoring a girl for a few months after she just came out of rehab - I knew she was going to relapse all the signs were there and there was literally nothing I could do.  ..It's why I push for more and better addiction services...  this is literally life and death.  
I'm sorry for your loss. 
Sorry to hear. Sadly I know exactly how you feel right now because have gone through this myself more than once. 
This is why I feel it's important to be available and to say everything that comes into mind when I talk with a new man. If nothing went unsaid I have no doubts later that I might have done 'better' for them.
