-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/5q7ney/finding_a_meeting/

Ive made the decision to start going to meetings.  I just relapsed after my dad had a heart attack and really just freaked out.  Sad excuse if you ask me.  He's doing fine now but now all I can think about if why the HELL did I do that? I was a month sober without any meetings- yet I can't just jump to the bottle when something bad happens.  My question is : what's the first step in finding a meeting? I can look online and type in "AA meeting" easy.  But there's literally so many.  How the hell to i choose one? What if I go to one and see someone I know? How fucking embarrassing. How did you guys find your home groups? 
----------immediate responses--------

Google aa meetings near me. Or aa meetings in (name of your city). Then go to a lot of them.  Get a sponsor join a home group. Get connected w some people who have experience being sober and living life. 
I picked one at random.  Saw a guy I used to work with it wasn't awkward at all.  He was very encouraging about my decision to get sober.  I wasn't really thrilled with that particular meeting though so I picked another at random.  I like that one a lot and it has become my home group...The most awkward thing I've run into was having the father of one of my closest friends (known him for 25+years but haven't seen him in over 5) come up to me and I didn't recognize him.  I felt horrible but we've have several talks since. It's actually nice to have someone I was familiar with that also knows all about what I'm going through.  I don't see why you would feel embarrassed just to see someone you know the obviously would be there for the same thing you are...Not all meeting are the same but mine is very beginner friendly.  When we have new people we will usually stay away from the deeper topics and go with something that is helpful to the newcomer.  ..Don't hesitate to try to get to know people buy my personal opinion is to not rush.  I didn't get a sponsor right away and when I did I still waited a while before starting to work the steps.  Just like making the decision to stop I needed to wait for it to feel like the right time.
The rooms are an amazing place. When u know someone or not it doesn't matter.  Everyone is in it together. No one judges.  It's like stepping into safety.  Please do not let fear of seeing someone you know stop you.  After a short time in the program you will actually be very glad for the presence of that person. 
Seeing someone you know at a meeting is one of the most common fears of newcomers. Don't panic if this happens. Chances are they or someone they love is an alcoholic and they are there to get help just like you are. Just remember that walking into a meeting is one of the strongest things you will do for yourself. That other person will commend you for bettering yourself.  .At first it is better to go to an "Open" meeting as opposed to a closed meeting. You can bring your SO or a friend for support. You can't at closed meetings (unless they are alcoholics too).  .I prefer Discussion meetings as opposed to Speaker meetings. It's more interactive. I tend to "tune out" in Speaker meetings so I choose a discussion- one person speaks at a time but usually for only a few minutes so I can't "tune out" for too long.
Hell I had 4 people I know at my first meeting.  An old neighbor a lady from church the dad of one my sons friends and a customer from my engine shop.  It was more relieving than embarrassing because they all had time on the program and were very encouraging and supportive.  I've seen so many customers and other acquaintances now at meetings all over my district after 5+ years that I've been able to really make a lot of positive connections and been able to grow with people not for people.  ..I have a few different groups I consider home groups.  2 in the city I live in and one about 20 miles out of town that my wife and I took over running at a church that had meetings at it for 40 years and was in danger of folding up.  There are a lot old-timers that attend this meeting and they needed someone who could commit to the key for 6 months at a time.  Sometimes you find the right home group other times the right home group finds you.  There are over 140 meetings within 30 minutes of my home and we have been to 115 of them.  It's fun for my wife and I to jump around to different places and we also lead meetings at our counties jail.  AA has more to offer than just a place to go.  There are so many other benefits and rewards to a sober life than I ever could have have imagined or asked for.  I wish you well with all of your decisions.  The door is always open.
