-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/5s6iup/i_really_dont_want_to_drink_anymore/

I'm writing here because I really really want to stop drinking. I used to binge drink like crazy in college and then before my 3rd year I met my boyfriend. I stopped drinking when I was with him and I thought he cured me. But recently we've decided to take time apart and I've spiraled down into that "oh I'll have one drink" phase that turns into 12 drinks..I've really just been trying to find help and I've heard AA meetings are the best place but I'm kinda stuck in a weird place cause my mom was an alcoholic so she goes to the meetings near me that I would go to and I really don't want to go to a meeting with my mother cause you know..that's just weird.what do you guys suggest? I really hate drinking and every morning I wake up is a struggle with me constantly telling myself "DON'T DRINK TODAY!!" It's such a struggle and I really don't want it to be. I don't get it and I just want to be able to live my life without alcohol.
----------immediate responses--------

I wonder if you can go a little further away for your first few meetings of where your mom won't be.  I understand what you mean and your right to feel that way about your mom or family.  So maybe for awhile you can go a little further to the next AA.  Or another possibility you can just go to meetings you think she won't be at.
If you don;t want to go to the same meeting your mom goes to that's all the meetings in your area - 1.
Is there another time you can go.  If not it's best to just save yourself and go to a meeting no matter who is there.  ..My sister is coming from out of town and she wants to go to a meeting with me.  I'm just starting out so I don't mind her being there. ..I don't know about your relationship with your mother. With mine it is not the best.  But if your relationship is half decent you can support each other.  Thinking positive. 
If doesn't have to be weird. In fact you might consider telling your mom your struggles. Allow her to help you. That's part of her sobriety. ..If that's not an option there are tons of meetings. I don't know where you are but for example in houston I think there's literally 2500 meetings a day. Or some crazy number like that.
