-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/5sdb87/the_difference_between_being_an_alcoholic_and/

So I have been struggling with my drinking for a very long time. I do not drink everyday but I reach black out stage about 50% of the times I do drink and I'm 26 and have been doing this since my teens I'll get shit faced wake up hating life be ill for a few days feel better repeat my boyfriend is very supportive and we had a talk about things and he doesn't think I'm an alcoholic and I don't tick all the boxes on the is 'AA for me' section of the website. I have a desire to stop drinking but just wish I could handle myself. Is there anything I can do to stop myself spiraling as I havn't hit rock bottom but think I need help still.
----------immediate responses--------

It's not about how much or how often it's what it does to you. Our main problem as alcoholics is lack of control after we take our first drink and the inability to stayed stopped drinking on our own after a period of sobriety. ..We all have our own journey but each of us have had very similar thoughts and feelings while we were drinking. Check out a meeting. It can't hurt. ..Nobody can tell you you're an alcoholic. That's something you'll need to decide for yourself after you get a better understanding of exactly what alcoholism is.
Having a "drink problem" IS alcoholism.  Alcoholism it turns out is very often a self-medicating thing for another issue such as depression anxiety PTSD Bi-Polar etc.  What's underneath your drinking?  Where is your pain coming from?  In AA we stop drinking and then get to work on the other issues in our lives that make us drink the way we do.
Try reading the doctors opinion and the first 164 pages of the big book of Alcoholics Anonymous. You can find it online for free or 99  on Kindle. Decide for yourself. Lots of people didn't think I had a drinking problem either. 
Rock bottom will happen in one way or another.  Where is ends is when you decide to stop digging in search of it.
Rock bottom will occur in one way or another.  Where it ends is when we decide to stop digging in search it.
This sounds like me. I was a binge drinker like this.  I was using booze as a coping mechanism to quash negative emotional states. Used a.a. to quit drinking. ..Some people say that addiction has to be actual physical dependency. Others say it's wanting to quit and can't. I think binge drinkers are not physically dependent but emotionally dependent. If it's causing trouble in your life then it's probably time to think about quitting. ..A couple years after I quit I was diagnosed with bipolar 2. Now that I'm managing that and using healthy coping skill I don't need a.a. to stay sober. ..It would be worth checking out a meeting with an open mind. Also go see a shrink. Getting sober and diagnosed hasanged my life from choas to something i can manage. 
Joe and Charlie (couple of smart guys) ask it like this:.1) Are you unable to stop yourself from taking the first drink?.2) Upon taking that first drink are you then incapable of stopping?.If yes to both then I have some great news: you're an alcoholic and there's hope. 
I'm basically the same as you. I played the "I'm not a *real* alcoholic" game for a while. It was just my brain making excuses for why I could keep drinking. Because I'm an alcoholic. ..&gt;Is there anything I can do to stop myself spiraling as I havn't hit rock bottom but think I need help still...Yes there is...
When I got the desire to stop drinking I could not do it by myself I needed the help of others.  I drank alcoholically for 30 years but never came close to blacking out 50% of the times I drank.
Someone once told me if you think you have a problem with alcohol you probably do. ..Forget trying to define what an alcoholic is or is not. Who really care anyways. The reality is if you want to not just stop drinking but stay stopped AA works miracles on making that a reality. 
Everyone's "bottom" is different. I say I looked over the edge and the bottom came up to meet me. ..Do the rocking chair test. Fast forward 40 years. What would it cost you to NOT change? What would you gain if you changed?
Thanks for the support I figured as much I suppose talking to people who have actually been in my shoes helps as the advice I usually get is to count drinks/stop when I'm drunk which I can't do. I am going to go to a meeting at the weekend because it's when I'll be most likely to do it again. 
Food for thought: I've never heard a "regular drinker" ask someone to tell them if they think they're an alcoholic. ..With that being said alcoholism is the only self-diagnosed disease. When I first came into AA I didn't believe I was an alcoholic I thought that I drank too much and had started getting into trouble and maybe I'd go to a couple meetings and learn how to drink less. Very quickly did I sign up to go to 90 meetings in 90 days and got a sponsor the first night. The longer I've been sober the more I realize that I am an alcoholic and 100% powerless over alcohol after I take the first drink because there was no saying how circumstances were going to turn out after I started. Sometimes I could have 3-4 beers and be done but usually I drank until I blacked out or the bar closed or someone took me home. But I was banking on not being an alcoholic for years because maybe 1 out of every 15 times I could have a couple beers and be done.
