-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/5t72dw/support_4y_clean_having_relapse_wishes_disease_in/

I got clean at 19. My 4th year is coming up in 5 days...I'm sharing here because I'm in a frustrating place. Please don't scold or lecture me in just looking for support...Just since like ~2 weeks ago I've been having strong relapse dreams: sometimes I'm not an addict sometimes I'm distraught by a relapse but sometimes I just don't care. I know I can't control my dreams but it's effecting me...And my thoughts have been fine- up until yesterday really. I have strong feelings of wanting to party. I'm 23 in my last semester back in school and finally feeling like a "normal college kid" again (meaning I have a bunch of tight knit friends I'm back active in my sorority - I'm just fitting in really well and really happy). But my brain rationalized paying as "it's your last semester light load just binge for the semester and get it together after." ..It's just really frustrating and I wanted to tell someone but I don't want to freak out my family or best friends. I'm not very active in AA anymore (again this is a personal preference - please do not scold me on this. I am a firm believer in the 12 steps and they - along with meetings - saved my life. So I love and appreciate AA but I'm just no longer super active. I also believe in recovery having the goal to return to a normal life and through the help of AA I have done just that.)..Edit: WOW!!! Thank you all so much for the positivity. I am working through the comments now. But just know: 1) thank you 2) I appreciate it more than you know..
----------immediate responses--------

Hiya thanks for sharing. What you did posting this is how I keep from drinking. A lot of people just don't understand that some of us once we start drinking we can't stop like normal people...And more importantly a lot of people just don't understand that our disease goes deep deep into our minds. So that even after a number of years the obsession to drink wakes up and it doesn't go away. Like you I have using dreams I think about it during the day I think about it at night. The only positive thing about these occurrences is that I get reminded that I have a real problem a real disease.  ..Whenever my disease wakes up there is only one thing that makes it go away. I am typing about me have to be around people with less sobriety than me. The greener the better. I go to more meetings. I hang out in the new comer meetings. I talk to new comers. I read the material again. Sure I could talk to some old timers or hang out with my peers but being around those newly sober is super powerful for me. ..Whatever you do don't feel bad about it. It is completely normal and it happens to tons of us. Some say years 3-8 are the hardest. I don't know exactly if that is true but I have seen so many of us hit this part of our recovery and get deeply shocked by what is happening. A lot of us get depressed or too critical of ourselves. Don't beat yourself up over it. ..There is that old line that is so true: our disease is "cunning baffling and powerful." So friggin' true.  But thankfully we have a solution.
Thanks for sharing. I can relate. I remember when I was at 5 years and got hit by an urge to drink and lie to my friends and family about it. It was really scary especially since I hadn't had a feeling like that for YEARS and I thought I had become immune. ..Fortunately that fear was just the shock I needed to take a new look at my program. I wasn't doing anything in my 11th step life and on top of that I was dragging around a big bag of resentments. Like you I knew the steps worked and had saved my life. So I started working them again. I found a non-12-step group that was practicing a form of prayer and meditation I wanted to try and renewed my 11th step. I wrote a bunch of inventory and made a few amends. This stuff works! It worked when I first worked it and it worked again five years later when I started working it all over again...No shame in having experiences like this. Just means we really are addicts. Who among us wouldn't want to be a normal college kid for a semester? Sounds great! Only problem is I don't really want what normal college kids want. They want to party hard *sometimes* and then go on with their lives. I want to be out of my mind ALL the time for the rest of my life with no consequences hahaha. My brain just doesn't want to settle down with reality. Thank God we've got something that works for that.
Hey there!..I'm so sorry you're going through this right now- I've been there... kind of.  I got sober at 26 and I'm 34 now so I've been through times where my head tired to tell me that maybe I was just "young" or it was "just a phase" because I saw a lot of normal people being able to control and enjoy their drinking/using- or so I thought...One time I called a sober friend and said that I just wanted a drink... one drink.  And my friend said "No... you don't want just one drink.  You want to get obliterated.  You want to numb out." ... and that was true.  I didn't want to feel the way I was feeling and that's why I was having those thoughts!..I have a lot of really close friends who got sober in their teens and went through what you're going through right now and they were able to wait it out until the feelings passed.  I hope you are too because it WILL pass the dreams will pass the thoughts will all pass if you just stay.  It's easier to stay...As another good friend of mine says: "Not now we need you."  .The kids that are dying need you- to hear that you've been there and to hear that you made it onto the other side and that there is a better way here...Anyway I just had a God shot from my ramblings.  I hope that was helpful.  PM me if you ever need anything.
Oh I also wanted to say: that I'm not nearly as active in the program now as I was when I was newer and I know a lot of people who are less active as life gets bigger.  A big thing with this program is "take what you like and leave the rest" so just remember that if anyone gives you a hard time....as long as you are getting your spiritual maintenance staying honest with yourself etc then it's no one else's business what your program looks like.   Plus if you ever DO decide that you want more again then it's there for you anytime  
I'm so glad you reached out! Fear of judgement is something I struggle with as well but I know today that my motivation is what really matters and that is between me and God. No one else truly knows. As long as I am true to myself and committed to spiritual growth I have nothing to fear (even though my brain thinks I do)...I second the advice you've been given. Something else that I have realized for myself is that yes I would like to relive the good old days when drinking was a blast but the problem is I never will even if I do drink again. I know today that drinking would take me to a very dark place and part of my brain (the alcoholic part) is very quick to forget that and only focus on the good times and feelings alcohol gave me. I have to acknowledge that I really did enjoy drinking more than anything I knew at the time but it was a false and dangerous way to solve my problems temporarily and make me feel "whole" (temporarily)...If I work the steps help another person truly invest and open up with someone (especially my wife which I wouldn't have if I wasn't sober) then I get the true rewards of being whole and solving my problems. Life will always have problems but I love life today and know that I can solve my problems better and better as I continue on this path. Hopefully I wasn't too preachy but those are my thoughts.
Maybe abmeeting or two just to remind you of the program. ..I do not attend as many meetings as I used to so when I feel a little crazy I drop into a few to reset myself. ..I also do something for someone else and I find that helpful. ..I hope your relapse never happens. How awesome it is for a young person to find the program and regain her life at such an early age. ..I will pray for your strength to get thru this with sobriety in tact. 
Thanks for sharing going through something very similar. You helped me 
Just get through today. 
Hey I don't wanna scold you or anything either but like the other posters have mentioned try going back to AA. Twelfth step work might inspire you and help you remember why you got and stayed sober in the first place.   thanks for posting though helps us newbies out to hear from someone that's been in recovery for so long!
No scolding but if you want to achieve long term sobriety you have to be active and stay in the rooms meeting makers make it. Its a choice for you I understand your young just imagine all the great things you can achieve if you trust the process and stay the course. I am 28 and believe you me there is no way I could of got sober at 23 but your doing it. Have to stay the course and trust the process one day at a time! 
Hi! I didn't read the other comments so super sorry if this is repetitive.. I got sober when I was 24 and am coming up on two years so you have me beat. My life got real shitty when I drank and didn't stop and then i got sober.. and my life got a fuckton better. I'm about to graduate grad school and get my masters I already have a job live in the city great boyfriend etc. etc.. and like all those things would be gone in a fucking milisecond if i decided to drink. all my tight knit friends - gone. apartment degree job (therapist specializing in substance use) all gone. Also the "just binge for the semester and get it together after".. are you honestly willing to take that bet? there's no accurate prediction of what's going to happen. ..Also just wanna say huge congrats! many people would be very jealous that you realized you're alcoholism wasn't doing you any favors at 19. reach out if you need anything :)
Whoaaaa. Your story is insanely similar to mine... but I ended up relapsing so what I can tell you is... if you're thinking about it this much your probs an alcoholic BUT only you can accept that. I was over 4 years sober junior in college and 23 y/o. I wasn't sure if I was an alcoholic relapsed wasted like 7 months of my life (quickly became not functioning) but now I'm back fully convinced of my alcoholism and wouldn't recommend it but don't regret it...I really hope you have some peace and your thoughts stay calm!! 
What a great accomplishment to get clean and sober at 19!  Congrats to you on that and I hope and pray you keep it going.  I would go to gratitude and reflect carefully and deeply about those gifts sobriety has delivered to me.  I am sure during four years you have much to be grateful for sobriety.
