-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/5txs14/scared_to_go_to_aa/

I'm 32 years old. A responsible healthcare professional with an advanced degree. Financially stable. No "problems" from most people's view of me. No legal issues just a couple of significant regrets regarding what I said to people and nearly starting a fire by falling asleep/blacking out while cooking pizza.....twice. I started drinking casually only about 5 years ago. I'd drank on occasion prior but gradually over the last 5 years it has worsened. I knew I liked (a bit too much) all along but I was almost 29 before it started to be ANY sort of issue. ..I drink when I go out and that's not a problem. It's essentially only when I'm home that I struggle. It started with one beer at night and spiraled. I know I have a problem. Drinking for the purpose of feeling that high when you're alone isn't good. Blacking out isn't good. (and it is devastating to wake up and wonder who you text etc....). I quit I start I quit I start..............I want to go to AA but have no idea what it's like and am scared to death to try it. There is even group one block from my house every evening. Can anyone else give me thoughts? What was your first time going like? Do I have to say anything? can I just sit and listen at first? would that be weird? ..What can I order if I'm out?? I quite often when out order vodka soda with lime.... ok to just say I'd like Soda water with lime??? I'm clueless...:/
----------immediate responses--------

Scroll down the sidebar in /r/alcoholism near the bottom. You'll find good information on what to expect at meetings. 
My first time going to AA was a little nerve wracking on my way in.  But once it got underway it was really cool.  ..It was a strange but liberating feeling hearing other people describe the same behavior as me.   The same feelings and worries.  And it was encouraging to see so many people with 10+ years of sobriety.  ...I entered full of fear and despair. But I left with hope and much food for thought.  ...I didn't say much but everyone was super nice welcoming and supportive.  ...Just go. You'll be glad you did IMO
First meeting for me was scary as shit.  Had I known how dramatically my life was going to change I probably never would have mustered the courage to walk through the door.  It has made all the difference in the world.  My disease is progressive and fatal.  The scariest thought is what if I hadn't found the courage to walk through the doors of AA and be warmly welcomed by people whose only interest was helping me recover.  On my previous path I would be dead or in terrible condition.  Today I have a healthy and prosperous life beyond my wildest imaginations.  Give it an extended try and see if the benefits aren't compelling.  Our drinking lives remain outside calling us to return whenever we want our misery refunded.
You sound almost exactly like me down to age and intake amount. I was scared to death my first time. But its the best thing I've ever done. You don't have to say anything at first if you don't want to. Do introduce yourself at the beginning...Best advice I got was listen for similarities. You are going to hear from a lot of people who will have really messed up back stories and you are going to think "I'm not that bad this isn't really for me". Ignore that voice and keep going to meetings. Find people with long term sobriety and follow their advice even if you don't want to...Good luck. This is not easy at all but it only gets harder the longer you put it off..
Anyone LGBT+ ??? That's another thing that freaks me out.....even though I know the group near me is in a very lgbt friendly church......I used to be Very involved.....until I came out and was essentially ex communicated....so churches freak me out....
Yeah? We shall see.... My logic says I'm SURE you are right but it IS quite scary.....
Hi.  Here is my experience as a *very* new member of AA.  I just made a burner account so that I could talk with you.  I was just like you.  I've been a problem drinker for several years (and headed that way for much longer).  I have two advanced degrees.  I'm not homeless.  I've never been in trouble lost a job or lost friends or family because of my drinking.  ..But as much as I wanted to quit drinking I was afraid of going to AA just like you.  So afraid I didn't even think about going.  It wasn't even on my radar.  But I've been an alcoholic for a long time and it is time for me to get my shit together.  ..So I hope you read my story and it gives you strength.  ..On February 5th 2017 I went to my first AA meeting having been persuaded by friends and a friend's sister who had been through the program.  I was terrified.  I picked a meeting based only on proximity to where I live and had my husband drive me.  As we pulled up to a dilapidated building three "scary looking" men stood outside smoking.  I told my husband I didn't want to get out of the car.  He got me out with the promise that he would wait in the car and if I really needed to leave he would be there to drive me home.  ..I got out of the car and kind of half-assed waved at the guys.  They said "Hi" back.  I ran for the door and opened it.  People looked at me.  Older men and women.  They smiled.  One man introduced himself to me and asked my name.  He told me about the coffee and donuts.  He asked if I was new or from a different meeting place (aka Home Group).  I told him about how it was my first meeting.  All the while I was freaking out inside.  ..This man was so very nice to me.  He sat down with me talked a bit about himself and asked a bit about me.  He was on his "second" first thirty days.  His daughter was also on her "second" first thirty days and would be at this meeting.  ..As other people came in they introduced themselves to me.  The nice man's daughter showed up and sat next to me.  As I was already committed I texted my husband that he could leave.  ..Then the meeting started.  They read a few things from the AA Big Book things they read at the beginning of every meeting (or so I've learned).  Then they ask if anyone is in their first second or third meeting.  I raised my hand and mumbled "Hi my name is JustSoberingUp and I'm an alcoholic and this is my very first meeting."  Everyone said "Hi JustSoberingUp" and clapped for me.  There were many smiles and I heard several people congratulate me.  ..Then a man was introduced to speak and tell his story to the whole group.  It was one of the "scary" men from outside.  Turns out this man who I was afraid of was 17 years sober.  All thanks to AA.  He told his story and it was both sad and happy.  I wasn't scared of him anymore.  Then the meeting was opened up for other people to speak.  ..More stories came.  More people talking about this thing that we all have in common even though we come from different backgrounds.  But mostly people talked about how AA had helped them how their lives had gotten better for going to meetings and working the steps.  I just listened too afraid to contribute.  One man mentioned that at his first meeting he had been told that the most important person in the room was the newcomer.  And so he directed his story and his hope for the future at me.  *At me.*  I was no longer freaking out inside.    ..I have never felt so welcomed to a new and scary place in my entire life.  At the break people came up to me to introduce themselves.  They asked how many days I had sober.  I was embarrassed to say that I'd only been sober 11 days.  "11 Days!!!" "That's incredible!"  "Good for you." "You should be very proud of yourself what you've done is very difficult."..At the end of the meeting the nice man bought me a copy of the Big Book.  He didn't even ask just bought it for me.  I'm almost crying right now just thinking about it.  ..The next day I went to another meeting.  The day after that another.  I've been to a meeting every day since the 5th and twice on Saturday.  That's 10 meetings and I will go to many many more.  ..Please don't be afraid to go to AA.  Every time I go I meet new people.  Friendly loving people who are truly and *absolutely* rooting for me.  Who wish with all their might that I have the strength to stay sober.  Every single person in those rooms has something in common with you.  Every single person knows what you are feeling right now.  They have felt it.  They have overcome it.  And their only wish is for you to do the same.  
If you get there about 15 minutes early there won't be many people here - usually just a handful of people who are there to set up.  It might be easier for you to walk in to a smaller group and just walk up to someone and introduce yourself.  Tell them you are new and they will guide you through.  The people I have met in AA are some of the friendliest and supportive people I have ever met.  They have all been where you are and they want you to succeed.  
Meetings can be daunting. But they are also really educational if you are looking to be educated. My advice is listen listen listen. Keep mouth shut for a while after you introduce yourself. Then listen a little more. ..Get a few same sex phone numbers then go home and call. If someone gives you their phone number it means you are willing to talk. .. I have met former co-workers at meetings and after we exchange stories we became good buddies. A top producing realtor who is also mom of a friend of my kid. A couple or three lawyers one we see on a billboard all over town. A LOT of doctors and nurses. ..Read the doctors opinion. Eye opening. It is amazing that in the 21st century alcoholism is still looked upon as a moral issue opposed to a disease. ..You may find after 90 meetings or so that you ARE an alcoholic or possibly that you are not. But keep this in mind once a pickle you can never again be a cucumber. ..Good luck. 
One note. If you can avoid kidding yourself that you need a couple of drinks to cut your anxiety down before attending a meeting. Doing that makes it unlikely the experience will be meaningful to you. Go in without a drink.
In my early days I would show up very early to meetings - about an hour or so. That way I could be sat down at the back and just watch everyone else come in. The worst thing I could have done back then was arrive with 5 mins to go to the beginning of the meeting and have a hundred eyes watch me come into the room and sit down...
It was a relief.  Call ahead to the general aa number in your area and make arrangements for someone to meet you outside and sit with you.  Having that connection will make it a lot less scary.  You will be amazed at looking around how not alone you are - that there are people who can relate and who have worse consequences to their addiction or not as bad... but in the end everyone is there for the same reason and there is amazing power in that fact.  good luck to you. do it now before it ruins your life.  
