-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/5u628f/5th_step_struggle/

So my sponsor told me to go to a priest to do it but I really don't want to. What can I do instead?
----------immediate responses--------

Get a different sponsor. My sponsor had me do my 5th step with them. 
Tell your sponsor you don't want to and ask for an alternative?
New sponsor time. 
Why take the 5th step with a priest? What experience does he have with the AA program? Do the 5th step with a sponsor who's prepared "for a long talk" who is actually willing to take the time to help you. 
Find  a sponsor interested in taking you thru the steps immediately while your own willingness is strong. Unless you have something to say that could cause them to be an accomplice to illegal activity there is no need for a priest. 
I did mine with a priest it worked out great. I am not christian and it was awesome to know that he wasn't going to come to me in the rooms. My sponsor and when I sponsor do not hear 5th steps. 
Swap it with another man from your group. 
Please read from the last line on pg. 73 thru the 2nd paragraph of 74. Your sponsor very well might be of the camp who is "belonging to a religious denomination..." And it was this path for him via a priest that worked for him. "We often find such a person quick to see and understand our problem." If an ordained priest is not your cup of tea then seeking out "...a close-mouthed understanding friend" is probably your course of action. This is traditionally ones sponsor and they ought to honour the "life and death errand" hang up the details of thier experience and hunker down for a long talk. To all those who were rash in suggesting a new sponsor set aside your prejudices and stick to the suggestions of our literature. Know this... You've come a great way from your last drink trust your heart and the intuitive thoughts that come to you in prayer and meditation. The answer is within you... Do not delay. Blessings and we'll wishes on your journey! 
Hiya. Some of the old timers feel that using a Priest is important because of the word "god". ..But the setup is worth thinking about. Your sponsor has heard all of your fourth step work. They have helped you focus you learn to be honest with yourself and you learn how to apply the steps to your issues. By introducing a third party a priest who is traditionally impartial you have to focus be honest and apply the steps with truth and clarity enough so that someone who doesn't know you can understand what you are saying. ..It is kind of amazing how smart this approach is. So much of the steps is about gaining a new perspective and there are few things more effective in gaining a new perspective than trying to see things from another's point of view...Back to the priest; one cannot ignore that a priest is a holy man for a particular branch of some religion. If one isn't a member of anything this is can be a big problem. While we are supposed to work on getting more spiritual this is a bit too early and definitely not as structured as everything up to this point has been. True. Good religious staff are flexible and they can work with people of all faiths. However this is a no for a lot of people...Like the others have typed it doesn't have to be a priest. But it should be someone trustworthy. If you haven't yet pay attention to the people in your club and find one of the people with a number of years of sobriety that not just say the right things but do the right things. ..If your sponsor is adamant about a priest and you aren't ready to go that far in your spiritual development or if your spiritual path doesn't have those types of people in them talk to him about it. If they are inflexible they will have to learn to understand when you say you have to get someone else to help you go through the steps.
What do you want to do?
Listen to your sponsor. 
I did mine with a priest who was recovering and it was a healing experience!
Find an easier softer way.
You could pay a therapist to listen. Go to a strange town and snag a member hanging around the Alano club. ..Someone who will understand yet be unaffected by anything you disclose. List of prospects to hear your 5th is endless if you use your imagination. Someone who's willing to sit for a while with 2 functioning ears covers it. ..They simply represent humanity.
