-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/5vx250/everyday/

I guess this is considered an attempt for help. I struggle like so many others with alcohol. I haven't had a drink for roughly 2 months. That sounds fine but I might as well be drinking because I'm constantly wanting and thinking of having a drink everyday since. Everyday and for the most part all day. The thoughts will pop up in the morning when i wake up then they are more or less littered in my mind throughout the rest of the day. Next morning i wake up and same thing. I even watch the show intervention to try and show myself that that is where ill be if i continue to drink. (Pretty pathetic) But as of right now i don't believe I'm an alcoholic though i feel i have the potential to be really bad. My poisons of choice are beer and whiskey. I consider myself a binge drinker though I'm not even sure thats correct. Usually i will drink very regularly for up to 3 months in one case then ill take anywhere from 1 month to 3 months off. I will usually stop because the drinking reaches a sort of "climax" where it's extremely bad to the point of alcohol poisoning in a few cases. Either that or my drinking will end in some form of public embarrassment in one case where I've lost a really good job because of it. I have never talked with anyone about this and i guess I'm just looking for some advice. I want to give in absolutely but i know its the worst thing for me. Thanks for reading if you've made it this far any help or advice would be appreciated thank you. 
----------immediate responses--------

I think you have ocd about thinking about alcohol which you are thinking are cravings.. 
Alcoholism is not defined by how much you drink how often where when or with whom. Its defined by your ability to control it. If you have little or no control over the amount you drink when you start and find you can't stop (for good) when you want to stop (i.e. you keep going back to it because of a mental obsession) then your probably an alcoholic. 
I would suggest finding a local "Open" AA meeting to attend to help with some of your questions.  The further proof of AA working resides in the millions of people who fill the rooms of AA meetings daily to share our experience strength and hope for one more 24 hours sober.  You have found us and are in the beginning of Step 1.) We admitted we were powerless over alcohol - that our lives had become unmanageable.  ..There is a long list of "That's never happened to me" comments about situations both good and bad we in AA can follow with "yet".  Heading off the negative potential consequences while chasing the positive outcomes is what I desired years ago and is how I still simplify a part of my sober life.  Welcome and best wishes on your way.
Your relationship with alcohol is not a good one. Whenever you drink eventually there are negative consequences. If you drank orange juice with these results would you keep drinking it? ..I got a therapist to talk about my concerns. AA was also very helpful. The only requirement for AA is a desire to stop drinking. ..FYI: If there is any history of alcohol abuse in your family it puts you at risk for alcoholism. I don't know if this applies. 
here's the deal:  You wrote this :." drinking reaches a sort of "climax" where it's extremely bad to the point of alcohol poisoning in a few cases". This is not how normal people drink. Drinking to the point of poisoning themselves ?  This is how I used to drink ( an alcoholic )  You have 2 months sobriety and that's awesome.That's like   a gold nugget to an alcoholic. I know of 2 paths you can take. You can take the path I took which is similar to yours. But my path started in an emergency room on 1/23/2008 where I sat there for 7 hours and admitted myself I was an alcoholic . When I left I had to figure out what I was going to do.I started going to AA meetings for the first few months and then I fell away from the program. I chose afterwards to re-wire my mind over time. It took  a long time to do this. But regardless I chose this method. I've never experienced a spiritual awakening that AA talks about or the obsession to drink is lifted from you but they claim that happens. Maybe someone here can chime in and describe what that's like. You can work the AA program ( the 12 steps ) and have the obsession to drink lifted from your mind or you can re-wire your mind and eventually the cravings just go away. I'm 9 years sober and hate the thought of drinking now. I drank for 26 years. My mind has learned new coping skills. My mind has learned to live without alcohol. You calling it a poison  concerns me.I mean in these commercials on tv they would get in big trouble if they advertised humans enjoying a nice poison drink while watching the ball game.
I read carefully for the slightest sign you're not the real thing. Couldn't find it. It's ok to be that bad and in desperate need of help to figure out how to live comfortably without going back periodically to what's killing us. As long as you fantasize you're not that bad not really an alcoholic you'll not do much to help yourself out of the pit you're sinking into. Can be a fatal type of self-dishonesty.
