-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/5wsa70/i_want_a_drink_so_bad_that_i_am_afraid_to_leave/

There is a bar next door and my body is screaming for a drink. I am trying to fold laundry and I just want to get smashed. I usually give up alcohol for lent and so does my husband. He is on my nerves and the kids are sick and I have had a long day. I don't want to call my sponsor. I told her earlier I was going to go to a meeting today but I missed it. My husband just left to go get himself some beer for his last drink before lent. I told him it was fine but it's not. I am stressed and was going to take a benadryl and go to bed and he told me I couldn't and that he needed help with the kids that I can't just check out of today and he needs me to take care of them. I am done with today. I want to go to bed. I have been taking care of them all day. I am struggling. I could run to the bar while he is gone I don't want to drink but I want the feelings to go away. The aggravation. The anger. The sadness. I am overwhelmed. I don't want to be like this. I am already checking out. Screw him I am taking a benadryl and going to bed. 
----------immediate responses--------

Don't check out - call your sponsor and try to get to a meeting. Your sobriety is well worth it. Please play the whole tape and not just the beginning of it! I know you know what may happen if you fall into drinking again.
I cannot stress this enough. Call your sponsor!
The title made me laugh out loud.  Sorry for your struggle.  I was hit with a sore throat this afternoon. "it will hurt if I swallow"  I want so bad to "medicate" myself.  Some shots of Tequila and a squeeze of lime for some vitamin C.  I'll be cured.  But I'm an alcoholic and don't want to go down that slide again.  So I'll have some ibuprofen and go to sleep.  Not drinking today.  Pushing through. 
Call your sponsor please. We've all been in the pits before but being in the pits with alcohol is hell. You are already in a better place than before. Remember why you quit. Call your sponsor only another alcoholic can understand what you are going through right now. Good luck and a big warm hug! :)
I really really resonate with this.  You did the right thing by typing it out here.  Don't sweat missing a meeting; just make it to the next one.  I worked with a sponsor who used to regularly affirm - 'as long as you do the next right thing you can stay sober through anything'.  You don't have to go it alone though and you don't have to 'white knuckle' it!  Call and meet with a fellow alcoholic at your earliest convenience...You may also want to consider Al Anon at some point.  It certainly helped me being in a live-in relationship with an alcoholic who I dearly loved(/love!).  I'm not calling your husband an alcoholic but it looks like his drinking is affecting you...Lastly and this is just my personal opinion (not AA) but watch out for Benadryl.  It is possible to abuse even though it's OTC (over-the-counter).  This is just from personal experience.  During my running days I used to take massive doses in order to "trip" with it (Lord of the Rings on Benadryl was... intense).  For this reason I no longer go near it.  You are probably fine :-).  LGALG
You are extraordinary for sharing your truth!!! You're almost done... Call your sponsor or call ANYone that you know in the program. 
How did your night turn out ?  If you never conquer nights like this  you'll never beat this alcohol problem and then you'll feel defeated.
Just For Today.Just for today I will try to live through this day only and not tackle my whole life problem at once. I can do something for twelve hours that would  appall me if I felt that I had to keep it up for a lifetime.   .  . Just for today I will be happy. This assumes to be true what Abraham Lincoln said that "most folks are as happy as they make up their minds to be."   .  .Just for today I will try to strengthen my mind. I will study. I will learn something useful. I will  not be a mental loafer. I will read  something that requires effort thought and concentration. .  .Just for today I will adjust myself to what is and  not try to adjust everything to my own desires. I will take my "luck" as it comes and fit myself to it. .  .Just for today I will exercise my soul in three ways: I will do somebody a good turn and not get found out.  I will do at least two things I don't want to--just  for exercise. I will not show anyone that my feelings  are hurt; they may be hurt but today I will not show it .  . Just for today I will be agreeable. I will look as well as I can dress becomingly talk low act courteously criticize not one bit not find fault with anything and not try to improve or regulate anybody except myself. .  .Just for today I will have a program. I may not follow it exactly but I will have it. I will save myself from two pests: hurry and indecision. .  .Just for today I will have a quiet half hour all by myselfand relax. During this half hour sometime I will try to get a better perspective of my life.. .Just for today I will be unafraid. Especially I will not be afraid to enjoy what is beautiful and to believe that as I give to the world so the world will give to me...  -Kenneth L. Holmes
