-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/5x0r1q/do_we_do_introductions_here_im_soburry_and_im_an/

 I wanted to do an intro post to force myself to become more active in an online AA forum. I used to be an active member of a different AA forum and I loved it. I relapsed and when I went back 1.5 years later it just wasn't the same...A bit about me. I've got 205 days sober. I went to rehab in August which was a 12 step program. After I left I did 90 in 90 got a home group got a sponsor. I attend the same 2 meetings every week and sometimes pick up an extra one if I have time. I do commitments such as set up coffee greeting. I'm currently working on Step 4 with my sponsor. Both of my regular meetings are big book study groups. I've read the first 164 pages a few times and working through the stories...I'm finding as the time goes on I want to drink more and more. This past month has been particularly hard because I have had my house to myself as my parents are traveling. Being alone is a massive trigger for me as there was nothing better than being able to get as drunk as I wanted without having to hide it from anyone. I love my job but I spend my days daydreaming about leaving mid day and going on a 2 week bender. I am more jealous of normal drinkers than I've ever been before. I wish I was a normal drinker so I could drink all the time...I'm also worried that I don't really like AA. Everyone talks about how they never felt like they belonged anywhere so they turned to drinking to help them fit in and since they've found AA they feel like they belong somewhere now and don't need to drink to get the feeling of belonging. I dont feel that way at all. I have been going to same meetings every week for 6 months I know everyone there I have some AA friends but I still feel super disconnected and like I'm on the outside. I also have no interest in reading the book praying believing in a higher power etc. I feel like I'm just lying all the time in AA...I have a LOT of good in my life but my thinking is so negative all the time I don't feel grateful for anything. I need to change my thinking first and foremost...Anyway thats me! I hope to be an active member of the community. I need to form connections. Have a good 24
----------immediate responses--------

You to my friend I think your being to hard on your self my in my opinion I get out what I put in and take a relaxed approach to my sobriety because I have had clean time before and taken myself to seriously and ended up relapsing so I believe there has to be a valence I hope this helped you some 
I suggest stop being a weak bitch and taking back your will power. You got choices. If you want to a drunk ass bitch all the time then you are doomed to 12 step fuckery.
Hey man welcome. Congratulations on 205 days. I can relate I still don't 100% feel "part of" the group as much as I'd like. I have a great sponsor who I feel really gets me and whom i can trust and reach out to and then a lot of people that I know and enjoy talking to but don't feel super close people that I probably wouldn't reach out to in a crisis. I have ended up splitting my time kind of 50/50 between recovery folk and normie friends who I've known for years. I don't know if it's the best it's just kind of what I've settled into...I also SUPER relate to isolation leading to urges to drink. I also drank primarily on my own/in secret and not having to look at anyone or have anyone see me drunk was super important so when i was alone drinking would be all I could think about. I've been living in a sober house the entire length of this sobriety and I'd like to think at this point I could handle living on my own but regardless it has been really nice having a little safe &amp; clean community to come home to every day. ..Anyway that's my own stuff I need to work on. I noticed you said ."I wish I was a normal drinker so I could drink all the time." Just to point out the obvious normal drinkers don't drink all the time nor do they wish they could drink all of the time. Maybe you didn't mean it like this but it reminded me of my own alcoholic thinking. ..Early on I heard a line that stuck with me: "When I was controlling my drinking I wasn't happy; when I was happy I wasn't controlling my drinking." It's basically a variation on the big book line "The  idea that  somehow  someday  he  will  control  and  enjoy  his.drinking  is  the  great  obsession  of  every  abnormal drinker." I wanted to be drunk all the time but I was also jealous of my friends who could seemingly drink with impunity. In reality I didn't want to drink like them - once in a while stopping if they started losing control - I wanted to drink until oblivion every time. ..This is a long-winded way to just remind you that if you have in fact decided you're an alcoholic you can't drink anymore. Sometimes it helps me to frame it like a disease like diabetes or something - it sucks but living is pretty good so you do the best you can to take care of it and it's manageable. ..Sorry for the wall of text. One last thing though - you mentioned you were on your 4th step. It was my experience that working on the 4th step was a fucking bummer. You're really wading through the shit at that point and it is a tough place to be. Keep going through the steps and you should find some relief.
I hear your struggle.  It is not an easy road.  If it was then more people would be sober and happy.  In order to be successful in sobriety you have to want it.  You have to desire it more than going back to where you were.  Are you there?  It doesn't mean you will stop wanting to drink.  It just means that you will commit to the help of succeeding...It sounds like the isolation of coming home and being there is triggering you.  Being alone for me was hard because it made me look into myself more and didn't like what I saw.  At this point do you have someone in the program or another friend that might eat dinner with you or watch a movie or just do something that has more of your awake time occupied until your family gets back?  Find out what bothers you the most and ask others for a work-around of the issue.  We want you to be sober and happy.  You just have to want it more...Congratulations on being sober today!!!  And welcome.  Thanks for reaching out.
&gt;Do we do introductions here?..We do now.  Hi soburry!..&gt;I do commitments such as set up coffee greeting. I'm currently working on Step 4 with my sponsor. Both of my regular meetings are big book study groups. I've read the first 164 pages a few times and working through the stories...Awesome!..&gt;I love my job but I spend my days daydreaming about leaving mid day and going on a 2 week bender. I am more jealous of normal drinkers than I've ever been before. I wish I was a normal drinker so I could drink all the time...I relate to this a lot.  Being alone used to be a pretty big "danger zone" for me.  I would double up on meetings take extra commitments let my sponsor know what was going on and call extra people in the rooms etc.  Combat the disease...&gt;I have been going to same meetings every week for 6 months..May I gently suggest trying some different meetings?  I have no idea how many there are where you live but in my area they are basically everywhere.  There are so many different types of meetings meeting locations indoor outdoor young old people with time people just coming in trying to get it people in rehab etc. each with its own individual vibe and flavor.  Going to lots of different meetings for me especially in the beginning was like being introduced to the greatest society on Earth...&gt;I have a LOT of good in my life but my thinking is so negative all the time..Page 420 "I must keep my magic magnifying mind *on* my acceptance and *off* my expectations for my serenity is directly proportional to my level of acceptance.  When I remember this I can see I've never had it so good.  Thank God for A.A.!"..&gt;I need to change my thinking first and foremost...Try gratitude lists?  Just a hand-written (or emailed) list of everything you are grateful for today including everything you might lose if you went back out.  Doing this on a regular basis helped the quality of my recovery immensely...Nice to meet you.  ODAAT.
Welcome and thanks for sharing.  If not AA find another positive outlet.  Habitat for Humanity etc.  You deserve to be healthy and sober.  You don't deserve a glass/bottle/snifter of poison. 
Sounds like you need to try a different meeting. Maybe you'll fit in with those people better. One thing I've learned for sure is that not all meetings are the same. 
I'd start  analyzing your life sober and your life when you're on these benders. Which life is better ?   I'd start focusing on why the sober life is better. When you start fantasizing about drinking this is when the seeds of destruction  get planted. You have control over your thoughts.You're letting these thoughts run wild.  
