-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/5xht6d/a_healthy_reminder/

This is just a healthy reminder that no one no matter how many hours days weeks months years or decades of sobriety we have that all are susceptible to alcohol's power at any time.  An old friend from AA (Dan for this anecdote) whom I've known for years and had not seen in some time was at a meeting last night that I happened to be chairing for my wife.  I asked if anyone would like to be recognized for any period of sobriety and shockingly (Dan) said 24 hours.  ..This gentleman who filled my early years with unmatched wisdom and who had 26 years of sobriety up until sometime Thursday had relapsed.  There was no gasp from the group and he was not looking for sympathy.  (Dan) made the right choice to come back and knew he would be welcomed at this meeting where no judgments would be passed and he could be propped up in a trusted environment of hope and strength.  ..I will never forget this meeting and what (Dan) had to communicate to those attending that no matter how much sober time we have put behind us that it will never be more than one day of challenges and triumphs ahead.  Our best days are all yet to come.  Thank you for being here for me and for each other.
----------immediate responses--------

wow !
Thank you well put I need to hear stories like that.." it is easy to let up on the spiritual program of action and rest on our laurels " (what is a laurel? )..I love this  following type of saying that I have only found in A.A. just so damn simple it smacks you " people who don't go to meetings don't find out what happens to people who don't go to meetings"..There is so much that can happen to me at a 1 hour meeting of alcoholics anonymous and in typical alcoholic fashion I take it for granted. ..I can share some life saving/life changing information  and I may never know how much I have helped others just by repeating what I have read and what was told to me...I can be reminded of how it felt to be drunk and hopeless which I need to remember from time to time and keeps me humble...I can practice unselfishness by reaching out to a newcomer...I can share in the good or bad happenings in my friends lives...I can vent and find answers for my latest problems...I can be spiritually uplifted by the people who are there and are trying to let god work through them...I can drink some bad coffee and grumble about how the newcomers are getting soft and should be given the 2 x 4 treatment like I got A.A.'s getting watered down...  I say this with humour but I have seen it a lot and I have been there at times. What is a good thing to say to someone like this. Obviously they are wrapped up in themselves and negative I guess I am trying to find the perfect verbal tool that will shatter their "delusion" not in a mean way although sometimes I would like them to shut up. Picture myself in the same position how would I like to be approached? With sarcasm and an air of superiority like the people at work? No. With love and tolerance and a real desire to help the person see and get back on track...... 
"Some people put together too many years &amp; not enough days" - my sponsor. That sentence changed my life.
