-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/5zxi2u/definitely_due_for_a_4th_step/

My 11 year old son has now been diagnosed with a panic disorder.  Since I was about his age I have dealt with a panic disorder and my father did as well...Like alcoholism people who don't have a panic disorder simply do not understand what it feels like.  My son has had to go to Children's Hospital three times because of panic and worse a negative reaction to Zoloft.  As great as Children's Hospital is they are terrible at anything reference psychiatric services.  The three times he had to go he was brought in vitals checked taken to another room to talk to a counselor then the counselor talks to a psychiatrist (which I have yet to actually ever see) makes a few recommendations and they discharge him.  No different then when I was a kid (in the 1980's) you would think our mental health care system would of advanced in the last 20+ years but from what I have seen not much has changed...It took a month of emergency room visits for the doctor to finally come to the conclusion that the Zoloft he was taking was making his panic attacks worse.  Very infuriating.  He's struggling in school and it kills me to see he is suffering and i feel powerless that there is nothing I can do about it...So many resentments and fears I need to list on a 4th Step.  Also I'm about to take my ex-wife back to court because I'm going for full custody of my two kids because his mother is enabling his panic attacks...I've done many inventories over the 10 years I've been sober.  This one I need to do is crucial to my emotional sobriety.  ..Please reply I need you all in the program right now.
----------immediate responses--------

It also sounds as if you could benefit from meeting attendance.  Go back as if it were day one of recovery and revisit everything that put you to your present state.  Get out the books call an AA friend... ..I constantly try to evolve within the program and fit it to my current needs;  attending out of town meetings finding new readings basic 12 step work and most importantly remembering that unless we continue to work selfishly for ourselves first and foremost that our days of sanity are numbered.  Complacency is an unfortunate (and often unrecognized) byproduct of AA.  You'll get back on top with the awareness that brought you here today.
Panic attacks - I'll call it fear "this short word somehow touches about every aspect of our lives. It was an evil and corroding thread; the fabric of our existance was shot through with it. It set in motion trains of circumstances which brought us misfortune we felt we didn't deserve"..What a shame it is that EVERY SINGLE HUMAN BEING ON THIS PLANET has to deal with fear and yet we do not talk about it. ..My parents had little helpful information to deal with my irrational fears. At least in A.A. we have some tools. When I have used them I have found they work but not in the way I want. I want something to take the fear away so I can go do things - I believe A.A. teaches me to go do things in spite of the fear and it will fade away - sometimes very difficult. ..I have no children but I have often thought if I did what a fantastic gift to give them tools to handle their fear. They would not have to go through what I did. The next thoughts are : nothing is that easy we all have to learn how to "deal" with fear - I cannot picture some one taking a shortcut how could I explain these concepts to a younger person? would they understand? can I simplify it? ..The main answer the big book gives me is to ask god to remove my fear -  how can i suggest this to someone who does not already believe - that's a long road. Personally I see doctors perscribing pills for fear and i feel that this solution is harmful (personally). I think there are people who need medication temporarily to get over a situation but if you are trying to remove fear - something inherant in humans - with medication....well logic tells me you're gonna have to be pretty doped up to not be aware of what your brain is doing. And let's say they do have a pill that takes away fear and it works and there's no side effects and I take it I am now dependant on that pill I hope it never stops working because I will be lost without it. The whole time I take it I am not learning any other way to cope with something that i will have the rest of my life...I theorize that for some reason I cannot fathom with my tiny brain God gave us all fear learning how to handle it is a part of our growth as people and it makes us vulnerable and humble to have to rely upon god to help us through it but maybe that is not as negative as I see it. I don't want to be dependant upon ANYBODY...I hope that you found something I said helpful I think it helped me to type it out. I am in the same boat as you I need to do an inventory but I am trying to avoid it for *some* reason.......a fear perhaps I let fear run my life and make my decisions for me and no matter how long i stay sober there will ALWAYS be this battle and I am getting tired.
Step 3 mister. 
