-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/60lmpf/i_need_suggestions/

Hello I'm a 20 year old college student and I need serious help. I'll give you all the facts as follows. . mom (52) is a longtime alcoholic. I am in my fourth and final semester of community college.. during my first and second semesters mom drank heavily. . In the second semester I needed to protect myself from being affected by mom I threatened to stop talking to her and blocked her on social media.. during my third semester mom had a small but severe relapse which culminated in her living in a friend's house without her permission (she was a state away and had trusted mom to feed her cats).. it was during this relapse that she had tried to fake test result sheets from a reliable drug testing service. I noticed that something was off and got a note from the testing center that the sheets had been doctored. Needless to say  I was furious.. I was not talking to mom at this point and once she returned home dad pressured me to start talking to her. He basically had to force me and there is still some discomfort talking to her.. a few months ago she found out one of my most personal secrets and I explained that I couldn't trust her with that information unless I was totally confident she was reliable and that if it leaked I would have to ensure that I was safe.. I got home from a long distance hiking trip with the college today and mom instantly asked me about adding her on facebook. Having sat in a bus for seven hours straight I can't say I was too polite in telling her (again) it's not something I'm comfortable doing yet. . she walked into her room and came out acting oddly. . I asked her if she had been drinking  she said no.  .I asked her if she would be okay taking a portable BAC test. She said she would. . she lacked sufficient coordination to blow for enough time for the machine to measure her BAC. . with dad's help she blew twice the legal limit.  ..In short  we've tried to keep her  we've tried to get her to take care of herself but her condition is hurting me and I'm at a point in life where I'm more vulnerable than I'd like to be. Any advice? ..TLDR; How to succeed in college with manipulative alcoholic mother? 
----------immediate responses--------

Aw man that sucks. I'm sorry that's happening to you. ..Your mom sounds really sick. You may have heard this before but do find an Alateen group (you don't have to be an actual "teen")...You can't help her until she wants to help herself. Alateen will give you the tools you need. If you can't find an Alateen by all means go to an AA meeting and at the end of the meeting go up to the chairperson or secretary and tell them a bit about what's going on and ask if they can partner you up with someone who's been in a similar situation...I wish you the best of luck. Addiction is a horrible disease. I truly hope your mom survives it.
I definitely agree that going to alanon or alateen would help you greatly...http://al-anon.info/MeetingSearch/Al-AnonMeetings.aspx?language=EN..it may be impossible to not get angry to upset but remember to think of alcoholism as a disease.  trust me your mom is suffering terribly.  the actions that make you mad are the disease.  ..Would you get mad at your mom from having cancer?  that is always a helpful thought to have when she causes a scene...I think you should have some boundaries with your mom.  boundaries can change at any time.  ..but definitely go to alanon meetings.  ask dad if we wants to go too.
Alanon meetings helped me cope with the alcoholism of loved ones. Hope you'll find some in your area and attend. See /r/Alanon.
She is sick and that is unfortunate but you can not be her parent. I lost my children due to my alcoholism and have only been able to begin to repair with one of them in sobriety. They had to protect themselves and that is what you need to do now too. It might be the best thing that ever happens to her. There is nothing you can do to help her at this point but you can "love her to death" by enabling her behavior. Love her and yourself enough to let this go today. The best thing you can do is find some support for yourself. 
The meetings will be for you not for you to understand her. We alcoholics tend to suck all the oxygen out of every room. They will give you tools and support so that you can thrive despite and because of her disease. I know it is difficult but hope lives there. Good luck. 
ALANON. You can't get your mom sober. Not possible. Go to ALANON and find out how to solve your problem because you've got one.
