-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/62utq1/relapsed_embarrassed_to_go_back/

I've been sober for almost a year. Decided to test the waters. Would like to return to meetings again. But I've done this a few times before. Therefore I am embarrassed about going back. I guess my pride is preventing me from going to a meeting. Anyone have any advice or encouraging words? 
----------immediate responses--------

How bad do you want it? There isnt a single person in the rooms better than you. And if they think that they have crap sobriety. Don't let embarrassment keep you out there. It only gets worse. Keep coming and don't drink today.
What's more natural than an alcoholic or addict going back out and drinking or using? If you're group cares like mine does and I do then they'll welcome you back with open arms and love. I never believed that there was a group of people who could love me they way my home group does. They loved me when I couldn't love myself. Keep coming back my friend don't worry you'll get it when you get it. 
Just show up and be honest about your slip!.It's going to be okay!.(42 year AA member)
Did  the Big Book not say it was "Cunning and Baffling" ?..Everyone who has long term sobriety has "experimented" and failed ..That's how we learn.
[removed]
Welcome to AA! That's the experience of more people in the groups that I go to than not! We don't shoot our wounded in AA... go back. They will be happy to see you. Plenty of us have spent years on the research committee. .  With you in the fellowship of the spirit! 
99% of the people in those rooms have relapsed before. (And the other 1% might be lying.) Go. Get help. It's worth it...
There will be others that are afraid to return.  .You may very well save someone else's life by showing them your courage to return despite your embarrassment...I bounced in and out a few times before my last drink.  Today is my sobriety birthday.  The last time was a charm and no April Fool's Day joke.  I have 22 years sober today.
I doubt there is anyone in the rooms that wouldn't empathize with you. In my experience people who return after a relapse are welcomed and not shamed. Are you willing to go to any lengths by over-riding your pride? 
Lose the pride before you lose everything. You're not the first and you won't be the last..
Thank you for all the encouragement. I will be going to a meeting at 7pm. Reading all of these comments is very comforting. All of it is very true. 
Did you know that folks who come back are an enormous gift to the fellowship? There's a very good chance you'll help someone when you share your relapse at a meeting.
Think of it this way by returning with pride and a sincere willingness to change and follow the program you will show others that relapse doesn't have to keep you out. Maybe someone else will relapse and not want to come back for the same reason and then remember you coming back and decide that it's worth it to try. Like they say the new comer is the most important person in the room. Not only will you potentially save your life and open the possibilities of a beautiful life for yourself you will be helping others. I spent 3 years completing 90 in 90s and relapsing right after but I always came back. There is no shame. We're all alcoholics or addicts and all understand. And those who judge are just putting up signs to stay away from them as they will be of no use to you or anyone else's sobriety. You got this!!! I believe in you!!
Yup. Went back to AA after relapse here.
This is actually a great time to go back. No one could look good under these circumstances so any pressure you might have earlier felt to impress anyone is completely off now. You can relax just be yourself and start to get better.
I called my sponsor and I went to a meeting. When they asked if anyone is just coming back I raised my hand. I also have plans to meet my sponsor at a meeting tomorrow at 4pm. .Thank you everyone for the supportive comments. They really helped me. .It feels good to start again. I'm excited to be sober. This time around I plan to be more involved and work on the steps starting with step one. 
The members at your meeting need to hear your experience in order not to repeat it themselves.  You have an important message to carry.
Relapse is part of recovery. ..Don't be embarrassed. Go back they'll all understand. 
I relapsed for 5 years over and over. I eventually got sober and have just passed 8 years. Embarrassing or not just go back. We don't say "keep coming back" for nothing. The trick is this time stay for good. 
I relapsed after 5 years. Went out for 2.5. Go back. When I came back one of the old timers told me "we don't shoot our wounded."
I would be more excited to see you than ever in my rooms and groups. 
i am ten years sober.  my sister is 15 years sober.  my dad is 40 years sober.  and we will all tell you today is all that counts.  I have had highs and lows in my ten years sober.   i would prefer to stay humble all the time but that is not the case...I myself am coming off a dry bender.  my life was miserable because I could not accept a few things and get my pride under control...so my advice to you is just get back to doing what works.  get back to meetings.  if it helps go to a new meeting first.  or call up a friend and get together.  ..I think you are ready.  reddit was a nice baby step
I went to a meeting this past week where someone had 3 days of sobriety and the last time I saw her she had over 6 months. Seeing her there thinking about the courage it took and about how alcohol could take me back out as well as the most powerful moment of my week...What I'm saying is maybe if you can't do it for you do it for everyone else! Very proud of you!
