-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/64b16c/almost_a_year_sober_and_exciting_new_lows/

Hi as the title says I have just short of 11 sober and for a while things did get better. I was diagnosed bi polar got put on meds that stabilized me. Had my best friend come. Back into my life. I find out she has terminal cancer. Well at least I have time left with her. Since then I got out of a halfway house and moved home. Still going in the right direction right...Fast forward to one month ago . I get home from dropping my friend off at her boyfriends house that is two hours she has been staying with me a bunch when she is getting treatment. away and go to bed. I wake up and notice my cell phone is shut off. I am not good at paying bills even when I have money. So I bust out my debit card and go to pay my bill. Declined OK fat fingered it declined declined. Color me confused I have thousands in the bank. So I head to my bank to see what's up. All my money is gone. Every last penny gone. I start freaking out and having a panic attack. I back into someone at the bank. Thankfully only damage to my car. This is the high point of my day by the way. I go to call my friend as she pretty much my non Healthcare related support system. No answer eh she sleeps a ton from chemo. Next day J hear from the bank and all the transactions are atm withdrawals at the branch down the street from my house. Then it hits me. She hasn't been anwsering calls because she stole all the money...My world starts collapsing around me. So I start with the bank on what needs to be done. Step one sigh. Police report. Step two fraud cases. Step three agree to prosecute my dying best friend. This is where I start to really struggle bad. I have all kinds of family members telling me I am stupid for trusting her and have to hate her. My therapist and psychiatrist take a more gentle approach and don't accuse me of being stupid. My sponsor is somewhere in between...Worst thing of all I don't know of any way to deal with this. I keep going to my AA meetings and start hanging around my old. Halfway house as I am unemployed. My depression and rage are getting worse. And the swings between them are happening very rapidly. I start flipping out at people at meetings. My psychiatrist changes up my dosages...All this while I have been job hunting as it's a condition of me being able to live at home. I've been looking for almost 4 months for a job in my career field. No luck finding anything. I start having really dark moments. I can't peel myself out of bed some days other times I can't sleep for days at a time. I start thinking of checking myself into a psych unit for a check up. Of course a company calls and wants to do an interview. I do the phone interview. Next day come on in for a interview. I go in and for once nail an interview. Two days later lunch with the company president. Great he wants to drink with lunch. Yeah I'll be like oh hey I'm a vicious heinous alcoholic. Oh and I'm also bipolar who just had his best friend rip his heart out and rob him blind. I manage to not drink and let him think I don't have a problem...They higher me. I was hoping they wouldn't because my mental state is spiraling further down by the day. So I start work and the job is going well enough...I have gone against advice of family other friends my sponsor and Healthcare pros. I have been trying to reach out to talk to the person who stole from me to support an old opiate habit that relapsed once the prescription pain meds started. She won't talk to me at all. This is the most painful thing of all. Fuck the money I want smalls back. I finally managed to get her on the phone and text for about 10 minutes. And I quote..Her " I'm done..giving up..so I don't need it. And I'm sorry...."..Me" So am I. What hurt more than the most was losing my best friend "..Her" Well I'll be a distant memory in a few days...i did love u..plz stop I'm not worth anything and can't handle life..like I said I'm done .take care and be good to urself u deserve the best and ur capable and strong..take care my old friend...till we meet again"..I am scared. I don't have my best friend. I'm starting a new job and am going to be without health insurance for 3 months. I am scared I may start having more dangerous thoughts and if I bail on my first good paying job in years well I'm fucked on that. I just don't know what to do..
----------immediate responses--------

you're doing it you're getting by. I'm so sorry to hear of your troubles. 
Just keep doing the next right thing. I feel like such a cheeseball but it really works. Keep in contact with your sponsor. Reach out when you're feeling squirrelly and strange. Keep on your meds. Wake up and go to work..You're recognizing your feelings that's great. ..You really can make it through anything mildly unscathed if you don't pick up. ..You don't have to feel alone in all of it. Message me whenever you need someone to talk with. 
ohmygoodness! ..I'm sorry for all this misery especially the heartbreak of addiction and losing your friend. I think the most loving thing you could do for her is to press charges. Experiencing the natural consequences of our behavior is important. ..Take it easy. Take a breath. One day at a time. 
Sorry for your troubles.  In my recovery I have to manage the amount of stress I let pile on me.  Life provides its own regular dose like illnesses job changes and burglaries.  When I get overloaded I need to let my suppprt group take over and help me make good decisions.  Great news on the new job!  I have one too and am trying to focus my attention on getting a good solid start.  Sounds like the dying addict ex - friend may be the piece to let go.  The theft is in the hands of authorities and it will play out.  Her illness will too.  Unfortunately when we are not yet in recovery we are liars cheats and thiefs.  Your experience probably helped some others tonight.  Thank you for your post and best wishes.
