-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/64nzkg/heartbroken_and_unsure_how_to_proceed/

First time here and this will be long. Sorry..I'm five days sober. My drinking was getting out of hand - again - and my husband had enough. He told me he didn't want to be married to me anymore and said he would only consider not divorcing me if I stopped drinking for good. I threw my beloved wine in the trash and haven't touched the stuff since. I swore I would change and I'm working on it. Spending more time with our two kids finding constructive things to do. He's come around but only after two full days of hostility and berating. He wore me down to a nub although this is one of the most difficult things I have ever done and I am doing it to try to save our family our relationship myself. It sucks in more ways than I can describe..So like I said he finally came around and we've been talking albeit with difficulty. The discussions have been productive although the hurt still remains. We've been together 12 years. He is my best friend. Hearing him say he didn't want to be married to me anymore cut me on half. I can't get those words out of my head. I can't help but think he is still going to decide he no longer wants to be with me and I'm devastated at the thought. But I'm dealing and trying to work with him through our issues while trying to sort out my own. .Progress was being made until today. I got groceries after work picked up the kids and came home. I opened the fridge and that motherfucker bought himself a 12 pack of beer. I was immediately irate. I can't even look at him. After all the hurt over the last week and my struggling with both relationship and self shittiness I got the message loud and clear that either he doesn't care or is just so naturally selfish he didn't even think about what it means to support me through this. I should note this ain't our first rodeo. I was sober a couple of years ago but fell back in the same old hole. He knows better. .It's not the most callous thing anyone has ever done to me but it's up there. I guess I'm just looking for a little support and maybe some advice about how to handle this shit sandwich without smearing it all over the walls of my increasingly broken home. Thanks in advance. And I still an not going to drink today. .
----------immediate responses--------

Agree it's a little early in the game for him to put beer in the family fridge. Is it possible he was let down the last time you stopped for a while and may see your continued drinking as inevitable and wants to get all the drama and hurt out of the way now so he can move on?..
I couldn't stay sober on my own. I didn't have a clue how to do it. It was easier and more with the help of a therapist and AA. 
12 years is a long time together with many ups and downs. I think he still cares for you and loves you but the trust level is probably very very low at this point. ..I'm sure there have been many many promises of 'moderation' or 'quitting' that have been broken over the years to cause the lack of trust. ..It **can be restored** but only by you working on yourself. It will take time persistence and effort. He will not regain trust in you within 2 weeks...As for him buying his beer I have no idea why he did that but I can feel your hurt. Try to talk to him about it. Of course he's not obliged to quit with you if he doesn't have a problem still maybe as a couple you could be sensitive to each others needs in this fragile period i.e. he keeps the beer out of sight and you don't expect him to quit because you have...Quitting by yourself is very difficult to hold on to because there will be down days (like this one) and you need supports to call on. ..I would strongly recommend AA. It has saved me and I'm over 30 days sober now. When I first went in I didn't think I could let go of alcohol. SD is also great. Keep coming back here and sharing your stories your ups and downs. Dig deep and be honest and brutal as you can be that's the only way I found myself changing for the better. ..The other part to recovery is service. Do read and try to help other people as much as you can. For some reason that worked well for me...Best of luck and lots of hugs. I will not drink with you today.
This is why getting sober for someone else doesn't work. People will always fail us because they're people too and are not perfect beings. When I got sober I had to take responsibility for my own recovery. No one else was going to ultimately have that choice. 
The fellowship carried my ass to safety and gave me hope once I began to see the similarities. Thank god im not alone with having this kind of brain. Best wishes. 
Big deal! So there's some beers in the fridge...What are they there for? They aren't for you!..Your unfounded resentment and self-centredness is the big risk here not the beers...You need a sponsor and to do the steps!
See if he would be willing to go to Al Anon. It's helping my girlfriend understand what is going on with me and with herself. Ask him if he would go because it would help you be strong for him so it doesn't seem like you're forcing him to go to something. ..Keep in there. Keep working the program it works if you work it. 
This situation sucks.  I do think that there is some misunderstanding on your husband's behalf of what an alcoholic actually is and this is something that probably most loved ones of alcoholics deal with at one point or another...I will say that my first real effort to be sober (not just curb my drinking) and attending AA meetings came within a few days of each other.  I'm actually fairly new to the program (just over a month in) and as hard as it is I would take a look at yourself and what part you played in this situation as that is really all you can control...I also have a great therapist and with all his greatness and time we've spent together AA did the one thing for me that my amazing therapist and everyone else including myself never could - keep me sober for longer than a few days...I'd urge you to attend AA meetings if you are serious about sobriety. The one thing my therapists my wife my parents and most importantly - myself couldn't do was create a support system based on mutual understanding.  Depending on yourself and others to carry you through to soberville will not work as all the will power in the world will fail each and everyone of these individuals.  The people of AA will not be able to do that for you either but they will give you a proper support system until you can get there yourself.  I don't know if that makes sense but hopefully it will if you go to meetings...With time you will be able to re-wire your brain so seeing a 12 pack in the fridge doesn't trigger something in you.  And with successful time in sobriety your husband will more than likely attend al-anon (aa for the loved ones going to aa) as he will need to change himself...Also - from what you write it does sound like your husband truly loves you but perhaps despises the non-sober you.  Perhaps the heated argument left him with few words to wisely choose from...My wife did say similar things to me which cut very deep.  I will say as a rookie in this program my wife now says I'm worlds apart from where I was.  Our relationship is now stronger than ever...As it does for me I can imagine that this pressure cooker of a situation beckons a part of you to say "just one beer one puff one snort to take a liiiiittle bit of the pressure off".  I'd urge you to attend a few meetings to quell that thought.  If you are not having urges I can imagine those anti-urge thoughts are most likely coming from a bad place (i.e. "I'll show him I can stay sober").  I genuinely hope the best for you/your husband/your kids...TL;DR - please go to AA and do as requested of you once there... more than likely a lightbulb will go off in your husband and you two will have a stronger relationship after.
I feel for you both. Early sobriety is hard on both the alcoholic and the alanonic.  Nerves are raw and exposed.  Withdrawal sucks and makes everything seem worse than reality.  The only thing to be done is to focus on recovery activities.  Alcohol is a relationship killer and my alcoholism killed my first marriage.  If you can stop drinking there is hope if not there isn't.  What your partner does is secondary.  Best wishes to power through.  Our thoughts are with you.
I implore you to find some humility. When I thought I had lost everything there was so much more to lose. House car job marriage kids rest of the family and on and on. I remember the day I was in your shoes. Honesty humility and willingness is the only way. HP will do the rest but you must make the first move. 
