-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/64uq7p/lucid_relapse_dreaming/

Hey everyone..I'm pretty new to the AA program (a bit more than a month in).  I've been able to stay dry and am learning to be sober.  HOWEVER I have been having very lucid dreams many of which include a nasty relapse episode.  The last one involved 2 specific drugs I've had a less than savory relationship with and I woke up thinking I had used and actually felt a placebo high from.  My question is is this normal?  I was told by my sponsor and a few friends in the program that it is but I can't help but feel like a relapse is growing within me.
----------immediate responses--------

Totally normal.  I had the same experience.   It lasted for a few weeks with the dreams becoming less and less unpleasant. ...Towards the end I had a few flying dreams which were awesome.  ...Now its all normal.  
Wow I remember those drunk dreams! I would wake up so angry with myself then say " Hey wait a minute I am not hung over!" I think it happens to us all. 
Completely normal. Just ride it out. For me at almost two years sober it still happens if I haven't been to a meeting in a while or haven't don't any program work. Something in my psyche trips up or something. I was actually told it was a good sign.
Someone told me that it's your brain detoxing itself as well. Not sure if that's scientifically backed but I liked the explanation. They definitely are a trip but don't stress about them super common. 
My counselor (PhD Psychology addiction expert) told me my drunk dreams were a response to stress irl and not necessarily an unhealthy indicator regarding my recovery.  There is much physiological stress in post - acute withdrawal.  I must manage my self - induced stress during my recovery to ensure the amount does not become overwhelming (minimize major decisions/changes etc.).
I have these dreams as well. They're fairly common from what I've heard after asking a lot. ..108 days sober 
The dreams are just as normal as all of the other side effects of becoming newly sober.  Insomnia headaches digestive problems lack of energy clear thinking more money reliable and honest support renewed interest in forgotten joys... Bring it up at a meeting sometime and you'll hear some great shared experiences from others and their early episodes in recovery.  Roll with it write down your experiences now and read them if the future to see how far you've progressed.  The shared experiences we have access to in AA are what make it work for millions around the world daily.
Just piling on. Totally normal. I had more in the first few months than I did after a couple years but still have them from time to time. Scary at first &amp; you did the right thing by reaching out.
Super normal. I'm two years sober and it still happens to me. Someone once told me that relapse dreams just mean that your program is strong and the only place your disease can get to you is in your dreams. Keep your chin up. They eventually get fewer and farther between. 
I hadn't had a dream like that for almost 20 years until one happened a couple of months ago though they had been fairly regular early on. Having them remains a weird feeling.
I am almost a month in and have had a couple as well. I always felt guilty when i woke up thinking i relapsed. I look at it as a good thing about how aerious i am about quitting.
Yeah I have them about booze and sometimes even about other hard drugs I haven't done in over a decade...It's weird cuz I'll even wake up feeling hungover somehow but then I get the relief that it was only a dream.
I notice it usually coincides with me thinking about or seeing someone related to that experience or drug. 
very normal.  they suck. then as I am finally waking up I am so glad to realized they never happened.  I still probably have them once a month and I am ten months sober.  I probably have them even more but I do not remember them...I am kind of grateful for them because they allow to remember.  but early on in sobriety they can be very tramatic.  very common for people to feel they need to share about it.  when someone shares about it in a meeting it can fequently become a mini topic...recently I have been having a kind of shitty version of it.  I keep drinking one or a few beers.  I ask people.  "wait its not a relapse because I did not get wasted."  in my dreams I will continually lie about the fact I drink a few beers from time to time.  I feel like such a hypocrit.  I tell myself I am not giving up my time...in the part.  I have had dreams of being wasted and doing all kinds of drugs...I think whenver you have one of these dreams you should tell at least one person.  tell your sponsor or really just anyone.  Hearing how normal it is is very comforting.
I've heard someone say relapse dreams are step one fortifying itself in your brain. I like that one. It works for me.
That was honestly one of the best parts about getting sober initially. Not because I using in the dreams per se but because the dreams were so damn real and intense! In was like being inside of a move when I (finally) went to sleep. 
ALL. THE. TIME. I wake up guilt ridden. Crazy huh. Good news is they slow down in frequency after about a year.
I haven't done heroin in over a year but I still have dreams about doing it. Similarly I have not been in school for several years but still have dreams I'm late for class or can't remember the answer to a question on a test. It's just my unconscious going through some shit I used to do that I don't do anymore. Totally normal. One time I had a recurring dream that I was living inside a Harry Potter video game. That one fucked me up. Voldemort is no joke. 
