-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/65gaex/34_year_old_alcoholic/

I just discovered this Reddit page and it has been very helpful to get me through tough moments. I'm looking forward to reading more of people's stories and thought I'd share a little about myself. ..I am an alcoholic. I started drinking when I was 18. Initially it was the typical club college early 20s way to pass the time. My drinking progressed when I started graduate school. For the first time I began using alcohol it to help me sleep. Then it became a crutch for which I relied to manage every emotion...When I graduated from grad school my mother was diagnosed with stage 4 cancer. I was with her when the doctor advised that she only had a little time. This was devastating as she was the most important person in the world to me...For the next year I watched my mother die slowly from cancer. On weekends when it was my time to care for her I began the morning drinking. My constant state of drunkenness numbed the pain fear and anger Inside. ..My mother passed a year later. But my drinking continued. I was in a constant state of intoxication. I had become chemically dependent and would get shakes in the morning. I simply couldn't focus without having liquor in my blood stream. ..That lasted 5 years with a few days of abstinence on my own self will which didn't get me far. I made countless promises to myself and my SO that I would stop and start fresh on Monday. Inevitably I'd end up drinking Monday morning. I knew things had to change. ..I went to AA for the first time on August 11 2016 at 1:45pm. I was drunk. I arrived at AA from a bar I had been drinking at since 10am that morning. It was the same bar I had got into a bar fight at the night before. I didn't realize how insane that was at the time. I'm not a trouble maker and wasn't looking for another fight. It was simply the only bar I knew of that opened that early in the morning. ..What did it for me that day was my father calling me. He talked to me about my drinking. I could hear fear in his voice. He's one of the most fearless men I know. At that moment I decided I had to do something. I looked up a meeting and took an Uber to the closest one leaving a half bottle of beer on the bar counter. ..I walked in after the meeting had started. It's as if I needed the "courage" of intoxication to say I needed help. ..The meeting was packed. I sat next to an old timer. In my drunken state I tried to share. The old timer told me to be quiet - I couldn't disrespect the fellowship while being drunk. Firm but fair. He held my hand while me a grown man was crying. I can't describe the hopelessness I felt. ..After the meeting several members gave me their numbers and took mine. They gave me literature I was in no state of mind to digest at the time. ..The next morning I was struggling with a bad hangover. I was gripped with anxiety between bouts of throwing up. I knew that a beer would dilute the knot in my chest and make me feel "normal." I also knew that if I took that first drink I'd be off the the races again...As I was pacing the living room my phone rang. It was one of the guys from the AA fellowship I met the day before. He asked me how I was feeling. I told him the truth i.e. that I was struggling like hell not to go out and have a drink. He told me that the fellowship was open and I should just come and hang out. I took his advice. It was either that or get drunk again. ..When I arrived there was a bunch of guys playing dominoes and drinking coffee. It was 11am. One of the guys who I have never met before took a look at me and said in an upbeat tone "you're in the right place." That meant a great deal to me. ..During that day I sat in on three meetings. After the afternoon meeting an old timer noticed me trembling and unable to sit still. He said casually "you'll be alright." I didn't believe him. ..I stayed at that fellowship the entire day. From 11am in the morning until they closed at 9pm that night. For most of the day I simply told myself "if you're here you're not going to drink so stay here." ..That first week was tough but things got easier. I felt like there was actually hope after listening to the incredible stories from the other members. I hadn't felt hope in a long time. ..I continued to go back and my life immediately started to improve in the typical way that it does mental clarity peace of mind weight loss better sleep reduced fears work productivity increases better relationships etc. I began enjoying living...From August to November I was able to stay sober in New Orleans (on Bourbon street for a 6 day bachelor party) Hawaii for a wedding and Miami for another wedding. I had a better time on those trips then others I've taken during my drinking career. In fact my friends at the bachelor party were a bit jealous that I saw most of the city of NOLO while they didn't leave Bourbon street. ..I wish I could say that I've stayed sober since August. That is not my story. There have been a few times since November that I've attempted in vain to try some controlled drinking. It failed. The common denominator for all these occasions was that I stopped going to meetings for several days. It was amazing how quickly my mental state went back to the feeling of impending doom after drinking. It's as if the serenity I've felt cannot coexist with any amount of alcohol in my system. ..I've got seven days today after my last attempt at drinking like a normal person (which ended with me consuming 10-12 drinks). I still struggle with that obsession that somehow someday I will be able to drink like a normal person despite all the evidence that I cannot. It's a hard pill to swallow but a necessary one if I want to live a happy life...About the only truth I've come to about myself is that for whatever reason I don't drink on days I go to meetings. Admittedly there are days like today where I absolutely did not want to go. I went anyway. Currently the desire to not drink outweighs the desire to not be sober. I'll take that for today and I will keep going back one day at a time. ..I desperately want to return to that place of serenity I was at earlier in the year. ..Thanks! . ..
----------immediate responses--------

Thanks for your story. See /r/stopdrinking. If you look in the sidebar you'll find lots of stores in the link Saturday Shares. 
Way to go!  Keep it up.  It works.
 I'd suggest Getting into the steps friend. That's Alcoholics Anonymous. That's the program that will give you what you seek. Sitting in meetings won't do it according to the book that I've been "sold on the ideas" in. Meetings took the name from the book. The path to sobriety is in the 164 pages therein. .    This is coming from a guy who goes to meetings every day but that's not what keeps me sober. The 12 steps does that. Sponsor. Inventory. Amends. Surrender. Prayer&amp; meditation and especially working with other alcoholics. .   Just my suggestion. 12 steps....
Great share thanks. Chucking my illusions that a little drinkie couldn't possibly hurt anything took me some months of examining my drinking specifically those times when I fully intended on just having a couple and reviewing what happened after...how things went. That helped me to see how much value my decisions regarding alcohol carried...Those who seek a full knowledge of this condition as it was expressed in their own experience have an edge. The spots I wound up in proved the point to me. The bad times others may have had drinking didn't mean much and didn't prove anything to me about my condition as they weren't mine...There wasn't anything good left for me in a drink by the time I was through most of the steps and so far that clarity regarding what I can expect from another drink hasn't left me.....
I really appreciated that share. I could relate to it especially when you said you started to drink to get some sleep. More or less same here and more or less same downward spiral to all day drinking. ..Like others have said get a sponsor and work the steps and that urge will disappear. That's been my experience and it is truly amazing.
