-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/65n1jz/got_ambushed_by_someone_after_speaking_at_a/

Tonight I went on a commitment with my home group and I spoke before the break.  I shared about how the first year can kind of suck and how it's not rainbows and unicorns like so many people talk about.  I also share about. You struggles with a higher power currently. ..So we hit break time and this guy catches me in the hall and grabs me by the wrist and says I want to talk to you.  So I let go of the fact he touched me.  He immediately starts talking about God and asking me if I pray everyday.  I tell him that as he heard I still struggle with a higher power at eleven months.  ..Next thing I know he starts with Jesus and pulls out a mini bible and tries to hand it to me.  I resist the urge to tell him off for multiple reasons.  So I just say "Sir I am here for a spiritual but  not religious program where I can find a higher power of my own understanding". He seems taken aback by this as I just stand there and let him peter himself out.  ..All in all if you want to drive me out of a meeting just tell me about a religious God and how I need one.  And don't ever fucking touch me. 
----------immediate responses--------

Try to look at it as an opportunity to practice your program. There are all types in AA. I often learn more about myself from the challenging types than I do from my friends. That said easier said than done and I fail at non judgment with types like the guy u described quite often.
Well done on keeping your ground..Don't be shy to point him out to the fellows whose group it is..Try not to let it keep you away... your life is worth more than one resentment   
Hiya thanks for sharing...Gads.  That's the weird thing about AA/CA/NA/SA. We are working so hard on doing the next right thing. We are focusing on giving ourselves the tools so that we can have the tools to handle this thing called life. We are learning how not to try to always force our control on everything around us. ..Then we see some of our brothers and sisters not doing the work or doing it off kilter. ..I am so with you on touching too. Hand shakes and pats on the back and the occasional hugs are cool. Friggin grab me? ..Luckily I did what you did; I shared about it. This guy told me something he learned from his similar experiences. He told me he was taught to use his home group not only as a sanctuary but also as his practice stage. The real world is so much more complex and convaluded than our rooms. Out there Religion Politics and everything we don't have as topics are all in our face. Urg!..If I can handle the weird ass situations inside our rooms I might just be able to handle them in the real world. ..So I am nice and polite and respectful but I make it clear (when I can do so with harming others) that I expect the same. Some of my home group can handle it and some can't. That's ok. I just don't interact with those much. They have their own journey. ..Congratulations on not breaking that guys arm. I have learned slowly that fire and violence is not the best solution: no matter how fun it is to contemplate...Seriously congratulations on speaking. The new people also need honest experiences from people like us whose time in recovery isn't "just like the book"....C..
Well said. ..My favorite shares are when folks speak their truth. ..Even when it's ugly. Or hilarious.  ..Especially then. ...You have a great experience that you can point when you need to talk about folks taking others' inventory and the failure rate of that action. ...Props for not smacking him. That's extra sober right there. .
Dude I feel you on your reaction to this. The first set of meetings I went to religiously was open to people who were there for both spiritual and religious beliefs. But then there are meetings I've gone to where it sounds like a fucking sermon. Then when I share about being agnostic in my belief there are states chuckles and head shakes. I learned that some people just want to believe what they believe but that will never affect my sobriety. But that is kind of a weird experience you had. 
I firmly believe religious institutions should be included in the fourth step - in the book where it describes "people institutions and principles" this includes religion.
You were a lot nicer than I'd have been in that situ. Well done.
I am sorry this happened to you...There is a reason that we say Attraction not promotion. ..I am not religious and my HP is simply The Spirit of Good. .This has kept me sober a long time and good for you for reinforcing that a HP of YOUR UNDERSTANDING is what is working for YOU..
The guy seems like a whacko
Damn. That's brutal.  ..That said the program is simple but not easy. There are certain to be Trials and Low Spots. ..Where are you with step 2? It states "came to believe". The Higher Power reveals itself to those who seek it. Are you seeking?
There's a lot of "off" people in 12 step groups. They have a message but just don't know how to deliver it. Zealots...Working the steps out of the big book is how to find a Higher Power. If you're struggling with the Higher Power thing find a sponsor at a big book meeting and go through the steps. That's the whole point of 12 step groups. Ppl think it's about going to meetings but it's not. That's not where the change happened at least not for me...Youtube Bob D.'s AA talks. You find some serious AA wisdom in those talks that you will probably not hear in meetings.
I've had this problem in the past but don't mistake good intent for maliciousness. This person only wants you to have what they've found. Granted they do not realize we're all built differently. Sorry to hear of your experience. Proselytizing should be discouraged in AA aside from spiritual elements of the program. 
I have a thing about people touching me especially men. Over the years I've found the best was to deal with the few people who do it is to say "please don't do that  - some people don't like being touched" So far it has always done the trick. Thankfully those who do it like those who are overly religious are few and far between. I have to remind myself that AA is full of sick people - some far sicker than others.
Thankfully with time and experience in AA I've learned to tell Christian nuts to f*#k off with this nonsense. As Bill W. writes in the 12+12 it's very easy to have many religious beliefs and a very shallow spiritual life. Tradition 10 asks us not to bring "sectarian religion" into the program so these people have no regard or care for AA. Grabbing anyone by the wrist is a disgrace. As my sponsor told me don't let anyone else's behaviour run you out of AA. I never have thankfully. 
