-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/66f5gg/find_other_ways_to_deal_with_your_issues/

I don't know what to do. I feel incredibly hurt right now. I'm using my throwaway because reasons...Anyway I'm currently living in a country where being an alcoholic is very taboo. I was struggling - a lot. I was fortunate enough to find two other people in the program and we started meeting. I had a horrible weekend. I relapsed and made an awful mistake and have just been sick about it...Anyway after our meeting yesterday I got a message from one of my group members. (Here's where it becomes important to point out that I am a woman he is a married man. Nothing has ever happened between us. He has just been a great support system in a very lonely place and situation. In fact both of the other group members are married men but I am incredibly grateful to have fellow AAs man or woman.) ..The messages turned out to be from his wife. They read "I don't like you meeting with my husband. I saw you at [local bar] completely drunk. We were making fun of you and [random person]. I have no desire to have you around my family....please find other ways to deal with your issues."..There were some other messages but that was the gist of it. I messaged back and said I had no bad intentions with her husband and she should talk to him about it...I am so angry and hurt. I know "what others think of me is none of my business" but it's definitely hard. It's a reminder about my embarrassing actions when I was drinking and that other people remember (even when I don't). (Also no shit she saw me at a bar drunk. I'm an alcoholic.) It also makes me mad that she's so callous - like who is she to tell me to stop going to this AA group?..On the other hand I do understand her fear. I'm not a good person when I'm drinking. But I'm just incredibly hurt by what she said and I suppose on a deeper level just by the fact that I've continued to embarrass myself and make terrible mistakes when I drink no matter where I am in the world. I made a reputation for myself in less than a month. ..I told my AA friend I'd be happy to meet with her and I would. Honestly I was hoping to become friends with her before this happened. I need female friends who understand alcoholism/don't drink/will be okay with me not drinking. I hope she wants to meet with me and I do want to smooth this over. But the selfish egotistical part of me wants to blow up at her even though I know that a) won't help anything b) will only make be feel better in the short term and c) won't make her feel better because she's hurting too. ..I guess I'm just hurt embarrassed and also the selfish part of me is not feeling sympathetic even though I know trust issues are incredibly painful and difficult to deal with...Tl;dr: wife of a fellow AA says she doesn't want me around her husband and I need to find "other ways of dealing with my issues."
----------immediate responses--------

I'm curious what country you are in. Are there women's groups or women step study groups you can go to? Are there mire people in the program besides those two people? Also I'm curious how she found out because it's supposed to be anonymous. I would say make sobriety number one and keep going to meetings.  No offense to her but if she has a big problem with it then she can make her husband not go to meetings someone can not pressure you not to go to meetings that is wrong. Fuck her. Keep going and find women. 
Ummmmm.... she saw you drunk at a bar with her husband... and you are supposedly connected by way of a group that's objective is to stay sober. .   I know what I've been taught.. you're mad at her? Put her through a fourth step. And when you get to the 4th and 5th column you'll see your answer in black and white. You.Might not like it but if you are honest it will be there. 
You know what might help? There are tapes out there and also a terrific app for your phone if you can get it. AA Joe and Charlie. The app is fantastic. They are two guys who give 2 day talks all.Over the US on the steps. And they literally walk you right through it. There is even a packet you can find online for free. Joe and Charlie's journey to recovery it's called. It has step 4 right in it. I use it with all the guys I sponsor. .   You'll have to give your 5th step to another bit maybe it would help you to start the steps with the help of this stuff?? They are great speakers.. I listen to it on my phone all the time. But getting it on paper was the key for me. That's when I started to feel better. .   With you in the fellowship of the spirit. 
You will LOVE Joe and Charlie. It's really good stuff. This deal is amazing if you do it. I run resentments through the steps and they are gone. We get to feel better without drinking. Keep at it with your group... eventually helping other women will save your ass every time. 
Are you looking at apps? Mine is for iPhone and it's a blue square with white letters "AA" on the bottom and a golden triangle on top. .   I'm not sure what there is for podcasts and such but that's what the app I have looks like. 
Recovery is serious life-and-death business.  Fellow alcoholics are uniquely suited to help each other.  In my opinion family members are completely off limits.  My wife and I are friends with some AA couples but that is purely social and not recovery.  If I relapsed and embarrassed myself in front of the spouse of a fellow AA I would make my amends to the AA but leave the spouse alone due to the potential to injure them or cause more harm. If my fellow AA decides to separate from me due to his wife's concerns I would have to respect that.
