-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/66h8wl/why_giving_up_is_the_best_thing_i_ever_did_xpost/

TL;DR: Ferretface26 one year ago: miserable depressed and drunk. Ferretface26 today: sober happy and hopeful. Big thanks to AA for making it possible...A year ago I woke up with one single thought in my head: I can't do this anymore. Not I won't or I don't want to or I shouldn't; I *can't* do this anymore. The blackouts the hangovers the guilt shame and remorse the hiding and the lying and just all the general bullshit that goes along with being an active alcoholic. On the outside I had a decent life: mid-twenties career city apartment living the dream. Underneath I was lonely depressed isolated anxious and tired. I wasn't actively suicidal but my thoughts ran in that direction more often than not and I was tired of life. I felt cheated like I'd worked hard to "make it" and be an adult and now that I was here it wasn't all that great. ..I started drinking in my teens and from the beginning I never drank like other people. There was no such thing as "one drink". I drank to get drunk always. In the beginning I wanted the confidence and fuzzy happy feeling I got from being drunk; by the end I just wanted to forget and be numb. I drank every day from the moment I got home pouring a drink before I'd taken my work clothes off and I kept drinking until I ran our or passed out. I was missing work forgetting events. My life was no bigger than work where I struggled through hungover and my apartment where the majority of my drinking occurred. ..365 days ago I gave up. I couldn't do this anymore. I'd known I was an alcoholic for some time and that I needed to stop but I couldn't accept the fact that I would have to stop completely. I had tried moderation programs and controlled drinking I had made a thousand promises to myself and I'd broken all of them on the same day. 365 days ago I finally surrendered and I put the bottle down hopefully for the last time in my life. ..There's a song by Rise Against called The Black Market and the chorus reminds me of those days...> I'm falling on my knees right now..> I'm covered in the mess I made..> These colors used to wash right out..> But now they are a part of me..> And I've been searching for a remedy..> When all along it's been in front of me..I had researched AA before but always been too scared to actually do anything. But after two days dry sitting in my apartment feeling like I was going stir-crazy and every minute feeling like an hour I fronted up to my first AA meeting walked around the block nearly walked away and then finally walked inside and took a seat. I was greeted with coffee and kindness and I left feeling hope for the first time in what felt like years. They told me to keep coming back and I didn't have any better ideas so I did. ..The last twelve months have been a journey sometimes uncomfortable often slow occasionally shitty frequently hilarious and the hope I felt at my first meeting has continued to grow. Long story short I found a sponsor threw myself into AA service started the steps and tried to half-ass them did too much service got resentful got shitty threw my hands in the air laughed at my ridiculousness and gave up found another sponsor started working the steps again threw myself into them for good. ..Today I'm happy. I'm content. And compared to the ferretface26 of 12 months ago that's a freaking miracle. I can sit with myself now without needing a distraction or liquid amnesia. I'm ok with myself as a person I actually kind of like myself most days. I still have shitty days and I still sometimes feel jealous when I see people enjoying a drink (particularly if I walk past a beer garden on hot Saturday afternoon). But I've come to realise that I am powerless over alcohol. One drink is too many and a thousand never enough. I have an allergy and I can't drink. So I don't drink. ..This is only one day at a time. Every morning I pray for another sober day and every evening I am grateful when my head hits the pillow and I haven't had a drink. I came in looking for a "fix" and I now know that I will likely never be "fixed". But I have a daily reprieve and as long as I put in the work I have a real chance at making this stick. And that's alright hell that's better than alright...I'm grateful for the friendships I've made in AA and the various groups I attend regularly. Attending AA seemed like the scariest and most depressing thing in the world to me at the beginning. Now I see that giving up going to a meeting and reaching out for help is the best thing I could ever have done. Here's to the next 365 days; I'll keep coming back.
----------immediate responses--------

Keep coming back ferretman
Congratulations on your year that's great! Keep it up...So many alcoholics fight against quitting for so long. We've all been there: it isn't going to work until you want it to work. I do regret not getting sober earlier in my life. But alcohol and other drugs had to well and truly kick my ass first. ..I had a similar feeling to what you describe. The morning after my last night of drinking I thought "I am done. Just ***done.***" Quitting drink which had seemed impossible before suddenly seemed like the only reasonable choice. ..I'm glad you're sober. It's a good life. Keep it up. 
I love it when people share their success. Before I got sober I would read posts like this for the hope they'd provide. Still couldn't figure out how to do it like you for quite a while though.
