-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/694k99/i_hate_somebody_in_the_rooms/

I've been around the rooms for quite a few years in many communities across the country as I've travelled with work. I've met incredible people and have always managed to see at least one good quality in individuals that I've met in the program who otherwise rubbed me the wrong way (including landlords who ripped me off other members who robbed me and a boss who wronged me) and I've managed to acknowledge my part in all these situations...There's a man in the program where I live now who I simply can't stand and he's made it clear that he doesn't like me either. He's considerably older than me and has a decade in. He's loud and obnoxious outwardly critical of other members and openly disrespectful. I've witnessed him pick fights and once even assault an elderly female member (which was of course stopped very quickly by a number of us). He's pointed fingers at me in meetings and openly criticized my program. We both attend a lot of meetings and it's making me increasingly uncomfortable; I've stated leaving early just to avoid him which I would normally never do. ..This individual is generally not respected in the community and I try not to join in when he's made the receiving end of jokes by other members. However inwardly I have a deep burning resentment towards him and it's effecting my recovery. I've tried being friendly I've tried ignoring him completely and I've prayed about it and for him. I've spoke to my sponsor and peers at length but I've got nowhere. In all honesty I've had sick thoughts of hoping he would relapse so that he would go away. It's beginning to effect my recovery...How do I deal with this? 
----------immediate responses--------

My sponsor has someone like this in his home group.  My sponsor told me they both settled on disliking each other.  'If you like everyone in AA you're not going to enough meetings' he says. ..Can you try not letting it worry you? ..I'm thankful most people in AA are full of kindness love and empathy. ..
Just lay low and wait for him to get banned from the club. Only a matter of time...
Well I guess the easiest suggestion you have already tried go to different meetings than him. I had to start there...It seems like you have covered all the bases you have followed all the "steps " in dealing with problems like this...I'm going to suggest that God has sent this person FOR you. You tried all of the things and the problem is still there. ..God sent me a man at work who was very sick spiritually sick and we worked together and he saw that if he bothered me I got quietly angry but never said anything. He was "bored" and made it a "challenge" to see if he could make me mad enough to explode even to the point of coming up behind me while i was working and swinging a pipe right next to me and hitting the wall near me a threat that i was next. He never did but he did make me miserable. The quieter i got the more he would bug me. He was physically much bigger than me older  and I was an apprentice and he was licenced...That was years ago and looking back I can see things now. Even though it was a terrible situation if my fears had not stopped me there was things i could have done things I have never done well like stand up for myself go to my foreman about it. I was being pushed against a lifetime of bad programming/character defects/ the unhealthy way I had ALWAYS handled these situations and I resisted doing anything different with every fibre of my being and I was miserable. ..Since coming to the program i have learned a better way to handle my "problems" but that does not mean that when my core beliefs are threatened I do not just fall back on my old ways again. I chose to walk through fire rather than try something that scared me. I don't think God leaves me hanging not the god i believe in anyway and he doesn't send me assholes just because he is bored and wants to test me. I am supposed to learn from these situations but......I am human and i fight against change. ..My sponsor always told me "growth does not hurt - resistance to growth is what hurts"..My sponsor taught me that an honest prayer is the best prayer in your situation my prayer would be " god I don't understand this situation and if there is a lesson in it i am blind to it. If you have a lesson to teach me please help me to see it and if you don't then please take this asshole out of my life (ha ha) help me to accept him as he is and not be afraid of him "..I especially like what you said about not joining in when people are badmouthing someone. I avoid this at work and when i do some people don't like that at all. They come over to me and press me on it and it drives me crazy. It would be so easy to just give in so they don't see me as different but that feels like it would be giving up my soul. I don't want to be seen as different from my coworkers but these situations keep happening. I guess i need to say the prayer myself.
I have a guy in a meeting I secretary who is the most angry and negative person I ever met.  I know he is a Vietnam vet and I try to cut him some slack in case he has PTSD or something.  He recently disclosed he had not communicated with his brothers or mother since before he got sober 8 years ago and instructed his wife not to tell him if she reads their obituary in the paper.  He is not overly disruptive so I just try to filter his negative comments but it does make me sad.  In the 1-1/2 years I've been going to this same meeting with him I feel like I have witnessed some softening but maybe I am just getting used to it.
Pray for him. Top of page 67. I live on that page when I have a problem like this. And it's worked like magic for me despite myself. 
There's a guy like that near me. I just look at him and think "You have nothing I want."  ..I am provided examples through the program examples of people I wish to emulate and examples of people I don't. They remind me I have choices.  
Some people are just dick heads. Alcoholics or not. Think of how terrible he would have been not in the program. Nobody can make you feel a type of way. Your emotions and reactions to people are yours alone. Try to AVOID him as much as possible don't engage or stoop down to his level. I've realized when people act like that they are usually miserable. It's easier to look at someone with pity than anger and resentment. Feel sorry for the mean ole bastard and move on. Good luck 
You made no mention of the process of personal inventory described in the Big Book. Praying for people is all well and good but we are given a foolproof way of conquering resentment that you haven't tried yet. That's what I would suggest...Also do not underestimate the power of the group conscience. If you can all get together and agree to censure him then you can. That is in the literature and comes straight from the old school. We have done it in my home group and it works wonders. He probably doesn't think that he is having such an effect on so many people because of how sick he is.
'If you have resentment you want to be free of if you will pray for the person or thing that you resent you will be free. If you will ask in prayer for everything you want for yourself to be given to them you will be free. Ask for their health their prosperity their happiness and you will be free. Even when you don't really want it for them and your prayers are only words and you don't mean it go ahead and do it anyway. Do it everyday for two weeks and you will find you have come to mean it and to want it for them and you will realize that where you used to feel bitterness and resentment and hatred you now feel compassionate understanding and love.'  - pg 552 big book.
Pray for him and view him like you would a sick family member. 
Is there another group in a nearby city that you can go to? F that guy but if you already don't like each other the resentment will always be there and will affect every meeting you go to
Usually the people that bug me are because they remind me of myself in some way. 
"He's pointed fingers at me in meetings and openly criticized my program"..The chairperson should be stopping this bring this up at the group conscience meeting...Provide specific examples.
