-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/69d802/thoughts_on_a_freethinker_in_alcoholics_anonymous/

I won't go into much detail about my history with the AA fellowship but simply leave it at the fact that I've been very resistant to working the steps because I have never been able to reconcile the idea of asking a higher power for help as useful in any meaningful way. I would say  that I am in fact agnostic not atheist but find nothing compelling in my experiences in treatment centers working with sponsors or reading the Big Book to sway my beliefs to the sort of gnostic/spiritual ideas pushed in the literature. ..I can't blame the steps for my failure to put together no more than a few months over my 10 years in and out of AA as I've only been seriously committed to wanting sobriety at select times. However when I have tried to apply myself to the program I've been pushed away by what I find to be cultish and irrational belief in vague steps that have little or nothing to do with the actual problem. ..That being said after committing my self to a treatment center in January and moving to a sober recovery house after giving my honest best shot at the steps again I felt lost and hopeless until I discovered this book: A freethinkers guide to Alcoholics Anonymous. .It's as if John L has been able to put into words my exact issues with AA in a way that also offers suggestions that I was not able to find on my own. I have a new appreciation for and understanding of the history of the program and a hope that I can make it work for me somehow. ..The meetings in my area are very overrun by religiosity and the director of my sober house is a spiritual bully so to speak and it's been very difficult for me to maintain a positive attitude over the last few months. However now that I am armed with knowledge of both the True and False AA I am confident that I can continue to grow in the program. The true AA is that of the fellowship of sharing your experience with another drunk of the 24 hour plan of the anarchist traditions of AA the false is the dogmatic subservience to a higher power and 12 (SUGGESTED!) steps vague spiritual principles and the escalation of Bill W to the status of a mysterious prophet...I feel that there is a lot of space for the book to expand on what exactly the True AA entails but also understand that recovery is different for everyone and that part of the dogmatic restrictions of AA can be attributed to limiting topics discussed at meetings. ..I would recommend this book for anyone struggling with the religiosity of the program. ..
----------immediate responses--------

Thanks for sharing.
The steps are explained clearly in the book Alcoholics Anonymous. Any questions you had could be answered by someone who did that work. .It sounds like the folks who tried to take you through the steps had no clue about them either. That they were "vague" to them too. It's all too common in AA where I live and I suppose in general. .Good luck on your journey.  Thanks for posting this. 
Spiritual bully?  If you indulge in that sort of thinking you are putting up a roadblock that will not let you get any further...You are probably doing most of this thinking automatically you don't even know that there is an alternative yet even though you have been told a THOUSAND times. Your mind has been forged to such a state of rigidity that I could present you with a white kitten and you would claim that it was black and you would never question yourself. THAT IS YOUR PROBLEM AND YOU ARE POWERLESS OVER IT - YOUR THINKING IS WRONG - and if you are ever to get free of addiction you are going to have to trust somebody else and do what they suggest even though every fibre of your brain says "no! this is bad don't do it!"..How do I know this? because i had to do it in order to get sober. If you do not do it now....do you know about saving a drowning man? Sometimes you have to incapacitate a drowning man in order to save him or his thrashing around and clamping on will drown both himself and his rescuer. YOU are that drowning man. You are fighting like hell against anybody from saving you and when anybody gets close to you with help you start flailing away and they can't help you you do this out of fear you do this automatically. In the spiritual sense we cannot incapacitate anyone so we try to approach and then we wait and we watch the disease slowly incapacitate them hopefully to a point where there is no more fight left in them and they can be guided to do the things that will help them. This is MY side of your "spiritual bully" and I am right and you KNOW that i am. ..Hopefully one day you will be tired enough of fighting to take the suggestions and then maybe you will try and save a drowning man and somebody will label you a spiritual bully and you will laugh..
Hiya thanks for sharing...That is a good book. Like you typed there are a lot of people out there that are confounded by the religiosity of the program. No matter how they phrase it in the BB or the 12 &amp; 12 the repeated use of those three letter words make it hard for some people...It was especially hard for me but books like that and people sharing like you did gave me hope. One of the things that stands out and that I repeat every chance I get (here) is what this old timer told me. ..Our rooms are practice for the real world. Many of us never learned or lost the ability to do many things normal people do:  talking to others working with others caring about ourselves or others. We get to learn how to do those things and practice those things. The other big thing we get to practice is how to handle conflict and stress. There will be things that drive you nuts in our rooms but he said that if we can handle our brothers and sisters we can handle almost anything out there...This is especially true for your topic. I live in Texas in the suburbs of Houston where there are more churches than Starbucks. In the old days they would have tarred and feathered us and ran us out of town on a rail. These days they try to be open minded and tolerant but they are just like me. They are learning how to live and live with others. And I too have to learn how to be around people who have been in that type of environment all their lives. Some of them have lives where everyone and everything around them work family church schools et al. are completely involved in church or god or whatever. I have to learn how to handle being next to those without diminishing myself while being patient understanding loving and tolerant. ..Luckily it is topics like this books like you mention and shares like yours that gave me hope that it has been done and could be done. 
I'll have to check that book out! I'm currently reading A History of Agnostics in AA. I've been sober for 3 years. Having a home group that is for atheists agnostics and all others has helped immensely. There are members of our group that have been sober for 30+ years without having to compromise their spiritual beliefs (or lack of). Also there is a book called The Alternative 12 Steps that translates the steps into secular language...With regards to "spiritual bullies" when confronted by them I simply state that "the only requirement for membership is a desire to stop drinking" and that Jim Burwell (a staunch atheist) was one of the founding members of AA. 
Great you found this book. There are quite a few more like this to read as you go along. John's had a long uphill fight to eliminate the steps and the lord's prayer in meetings and before too long another will be needed to pick up that torch and carry it. Might be yourself.
what worked for me so far (1 year): i stopped fighting the god thing and just accepted it - remember you choose your god not your sponsor. ..the steps are designed to deflate the ego to make room for a spiritual experience - not a jesus moment or anything specific like that. ..if sam harris (an avowed atheist) can meditate so can i. meditation works for me big-time i just talk to the god inside.
Reading this--maybe someone can answer my question about AA. Not to take away from the OP but to maybe add to the discussion. If AA is a spiritual based program and the door knob higher power theory does exist because it's been around for a very  long time...and I had a man tell me right to my face when I was going to AA.. My stats ..9.5 years sober.. AA for 6 months  then decided to rewire my brain " my way"  without help from another human being. .But here's the big question: If you turn your will over to a door knob which is a physical object  then you're doing nothing more than performing a mind trick on yourself  equal to taking a placebo pill.  This door knob has more power than my urge to drink ? The higher  power to me in AA has always appeared to be a psychological  solution and not a spiritual one. Granted things have been watered down since 1935. Where do we stand now in 2017 ?.* For the record I am not an AA member due to this issue.Can someone explain to me how a door knob  as a higher power can be a spiritaul thing and not a psychological  thing ?
I wish more sober atheists like actual atheists and not "I used to be an atheist but I worked the steps and found God works miracles" would speak up in meetings...If I had heard one single atheist speak when I frequented meetings 15 years ago instead of hearing clueless tone-deaf (well-meaning friendly) people spout bullshit about "it could be a lightbulb or nature" I might've found sobriety in those rooms back then instead of just now.
Thanks ! Just ordered it on Amazon. 
There is no such thing as the 24hr program in AA that's just some crap that seeped into AA from treatment centres. Show me in conference-approved AA literature where it talks about a "24hr" program. AA has only one program that's why the chapter in the bigbook is called "There is a solution" note that's in the singular there is no plan B. Take it or leave it. There is no "atheist" program in AA no "psychology" program nothing. One solution is all. When you understand that you might actually get sober! Which is what it's all about. Take it from me as somebody who's sober a good while you are wasting your time and energy on this nonsense. I know because I did exactly the same relapsed for 5 years kicking and fighting the AA program. Believing hoping that AA was something it was not. Take my advice and surrender. I don't expect you will with your big ego generating this stream of useless opinion but that's all I can suggest to you. Peace my brother. 
