-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/69g53v/my_sponsor_relapsed/

I just hit my one year mark in February. My sponsor was the first person I spoke to in the first AA meeting I ever went to and she told me yesterday that she relapsed. She and kept apologizing for it but I'm not mad at her not even a little. I felt sad for her but relieved that she is alive and still willing to fight for her sobriety.  .  . But suddenly I feel lost like I've lost my anchor. It's like all the work we did together every personal thing I shared with her was all for nothing. And she's kind of the only person I really connected with in AA so I don't know how to talk about it with anyone else.  .   .She even talked about finding me a new sponsor. But what does that mean? Do I just start over? Do I tell this new person everything all over again? I told her I'd find one and not to worry to focus on her own recovery.  .  .I don't have the urge to pick up so I'm grateful for that miracle. 
----------immediate responses--------

That's really tough; thanks for sharing. It's one of those things I hear about and hasn't yet happened to me althoughI have switched sponsors a handful of times. It seems to me like you have two good options:..A) stick with her if she is still willing to be your sponsor you want what she has and she is doing the work. This might seem strange but as time goes on having more time than a sponsee isn't always the most important thing. ..B) find a new sponsor pronto. ..Without knowing more about the situation I can't tell you which of these makes sense; I just know that in my recovery having a sponsor has been hugely important. Do whatever it takes! God bless. 
This is tough and thank you for sharing...I think there is no right answer here. On the one hand I don't think you need a new sponsor just because she relapsed. The work you did with her was not for nothing and not erased or invalidated by her relapse. In fact she may be even better able to support you and help you spot warning signs in yourself now that she has gone through it. I actually have more sober time right now than my sponsor but she has more total time in the program. (I have been sober for almost 2.5 years she has a little under 2 years right now but had a year or so prior to her own relapse before she was my sponsor)...It could also be a blessing and something that forces you to establish other meaningful connections and "anchors" in AA. I don't think it means you need to re-start your step work completely - just pick up where you left off with a new sponsor. Your story will come out gradually as you work with the new person...I wish you the best!
This actually happened to me as well...When I was a newcomer she had 5 years sober..When I had 5 years sober - she was a newcomer. ..I did get a new Sponsor - but mainly because I moved and was a few hours away from her. ..I have started over with new Sponsors many times in my 22 years sober.  ..I never felt my previous work was all for nothing. .I felt that almost everyone I worked with added something new - and something strong - to my sobriety...When my Sponsor relapsed - I took some time to get my mind around this sudden (and not very welcome!) shift in my support system. ..For the record - she and I are still friends and still support each other.  I made tremendous progress with her help and guidance. .And I will always be grateful to her for the guidance she gave to me.    ..You might consider getting a temporary sponsor to talk to until everyone gets their footing again.   .
You can be relatively sure that by following the path a sponsor has taken you can achieve the same results they've realized. Pick one that has the life and sobriety you'd like for yourself. It's rare that person is the first member we meet. Find the very best individual that is available in your area.
Just from a completely logical point of view if your sponsor is the one you are asking to show you how to stay sober and they do not stay sober - then maybe there is something they are missing? If you want what i got - do what i did...Now i also know the bond that forms when you trust and share with a sponsor and I am not saying you should cut ties with her and avoid her but maybe this turn of events will motivate you to ask another woman to sponsor you maybe someone you are not "comfortable" with someone you may fear slightly because you strongly suspect that they will be honest with you but as it said in my daily book " honesty without compassion and understanding is not honest but subtle hostility. "I dislike the term "2 x 4 treatment" and the way it is used nobody NOBODY wants someone to point out their faults without compassion and understanding. ..It is scary to have to "let go" of your relationship with your current sponsor - you don't have to. My recommendation is that you pray words to the effect of  " god if you want me to have another sponsor please put that woman in front of me AND please give me the courage to ask them if I do find them" and turn it over and " do the next right thing in front of you" and let god take over. ..Perhaps you can ask your sponsor's sponsor to sponsor you? ( i actually enjoyed that ). You could just start talking to other women and if by chance you feel comfortable with one of them you may switch but you could let it happen naturally.
These things happen.  This happen to me also. My first sponsor relapsed and it was after we worked the steps.  I didn't need to start over. I needed to keep relying on God not human power for my sobriety. I didn't need t start over with the steps I needed t live in steps 10 11 12.  Eventually I got a new sponsor and again my new sponsor relapsed.  So after the second sponsor I had to get another sponsor.  This one I still have today.  The point of my story is that I don't need to depend on anyone but God for my sobriety.  
Become their sponsor
It wasn't all for nothing. It wasn't all for nothing for you and it wasn't even all for nothing for her. A slip doesn't have to be a fall and a fall doesn't mean you can't get back up again. ..Life happens. Things happen. Shit happens. I sound very pessimistic but I don't mean it that way. What I'm trying to say is that living sober means dealing with the bad times sober as well as the good times. ..I can't tell you exactly how a new sponsor affects your step work. But I think it would probably not mean starting over on steps. And I don't think your relationship with your former sponsor needs to end. It may need to change but that's not an ending. ..I honestly think its good to remember how easy it would be to pick up a drink. It keeps us green...I'm wishing you all the best.
I've had several sponsors in my time. Granted I switched because either I or they moved not because of relapse. Switching doesn't mean you have to start over although it can be helpful to do an abbreviated fifth step as you're getting to know a new sponsor. I'm personally in the "get a new sponsor" camp with this one mainly because you want a sponsor who shows you how to stay sober and approach life's situations in a sober manner...Great idea to talk about this in the women's group. You can just say you're in need of a new sponsor. It might be a good time to increase your number of contacts in general so your sponsor isn't your only AA connection. 
If you get a new sponsor just realize that they aren't infallible. Neither are you. Nor are any of us. It doesn't matter how many days/months or years you have sober. This is one day at a time. No one in the program is cured so putting them on that pedestal is unfair. With that you should have a sponsor whose sobriety you want. And sobriety isn't measured by days sober to me at least. It's measured by how happy you are.
