-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6aa53x/sponsor_sponsee_relationship/

I've been working with my sponsor for about 4 months (first ever sponsor) now and I'm getting scared.  I've grown close to her (especially after taking the 5th step with her). Now that I've really started to open up to her feel like I'm being too needy and that I'm intruding in her life. I text her throughout the day and I find myself wanting to talk to her about all the stuff that goes on in my head. Is this something I should be talking to her about?  Maybe I need to talk to her about boundaries and how she feels things are going? ..I've been known to rely on people open up to them and then vanish completely because I'm scared that they're now in a position where they can hurt me.  I don't want that to happen with my sponsor.  I'll just find another sponsor and repeat the cycle. I want to be able to work through the fears I have when I start to care about someone and they become important to me but it feels weird doing that with her if she's directly involved. ..I think it's ok that I trust her and that she's become an important part of my life and recovery.  I'm grateful for her and all she's done for me...I'm struggling with figuring out whether or not my feelings are justified (that it's ok to care for another person and it's ok to be scared when developing new relationships) or whether I'm being too needy and am crossing boundaries without knowing it...Feels a lot like we're dating without sex. Am I nuts? Am I the only one who feels that way? ..I don't know if that made any sense but that's what I have for now. Thanks for listening ..
----------immediate responses--------

I was told early on that a sponsor is there to help guide you through the steps. Not be a friend a mother a father a significant other or anything else. Just someone who has been through it before and can help you get through it as well. ..That said my sponsor has very much become my friend. I talk to her about a lot of stuff. But I also have a network of women and a couple of guys who I can call with all the other stuff that goes on in my head. I try to break it up because there is so much going on inside my noggin that I can't expect one or two or even three people to take it on alone. Is this something I should bring to a sponsor? I don't know. Let me ask a few other people for advice.
I have a couple thoughts here...There's a guy who I know who has 30+ years.  I've heard him tell this story multiple times.  At one point he started to call his sponsor about everything in his life.  He wouldn't make a decision about anything without the sponsor.  Eventually the sponsor said "the third step is to turn you life and your will over to the care of God not to the care of Larry"...They laughed about it and this guy started to pray for guidance rather than call the sponsor...But they continued to have a great relationship.  Your sponsor will let you know if your check ins are a problem...Remember: service to you is a way for your sponsor to stay sober.  So you are doing her a favor by allowing her to help you...I have a friend who I've been talking to for the past 2 months.  I call him every day which is more than I talk to my sponsor.  Sometimes I think "I won't call Bill today.  I call him too much."  But every time I call him we talk for half and hour and he tells me how glad he is called how much he got out of it.  Again his service to my sobriety is helping him stay sober.  So I don't worry about it.  When I think about something that I think he'll find interesting I call. 
New aa member here. Can totally relate. Only I'm a 31 year old heterosexual male and my sponsor is 60 something male. Not sure what's too much but I choose to error on the side of caution. At the end of the day they're drunks just like us. For the real heavy shit I've decided to seek professional council. My sponsor told me from the jump he's not a therapist so I've decided to keep it relatable and reach out at moments of weakness. Be honest with yourself and be honest with your sponsor. I think you answered your own question and know what you have to do. 
You are helping her stay sober! :). That's what the book says. Over and over. I'd let it ride and if she wants the dynamic to change? That's on her. For all you know she's getting exactly what she needs out of this. My sponsor relationship is the best relationship in my life.. we tell each other pretty much everything.. and he'd tell me in a second if I was too needy. .   I think good sponsor fits can be hard to find... sounds like you have a go d deal going here! 
My sponsor worked me through the twelve steps and then we would;d talk once a week.  We don't rely on any human power but we rely on God.  We should talk with our sponsors but not every day of the week. Our next priority is to work others through thee steps.
This is why steps 6 and 7 follow on from step 5. It's easy to just stay at step 5 particularly if you have a controlling sponsor who wants to solve all your problems for you. The fact is we cannot become solely dependant on another human being because sooner or later they will fail us just like the booze did...Step 6 and 7 is where you start to be come reliant on the infinite never failing grace of God. God won't leave town or get drunk or die. If you become dependant on a sponsor they could do anyone of those things at any time and where would you be then?..I leave my sponsees well alone after step 5 I tell them to take as much time as they like on step 6 and 7 forming a relationship with their higher power before helping them with step 8 and 9. For me it took about 500 days of getting up every day and reciting the step 7 prayer before it dawned on me that I was put on this earth to help others.
Hopefully your sponsor will set boundaries. ..Maybe ask her how she'd like you to proceed..If one of my people was going to use or drink I'd prefer they stay in contact with me...However I also worked and had children - so for most things they would present during our weekly meetings (breakfast or coffee or a hike... it depended on the weather and what they needed.)..I am female and only sponsored females. .We became very close but I never felt like we were dating. ;) 
How about calling another alcoholic? Nothing wrong with calling your sponsor but she has a life too. I don't think you need another sponsor. I think you need to call other people AND your sponsor. I did that for many years.
