-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6azmrk/how_do_you_handle_paws/

So this is my 4th time trying to get sober.  I'm finishing up a rehab program and have joined AA found a sponsor etc.  I know I'm making great progress and I'm almost a month sober but I feel like absolute dog shit.  One of the doctors at the rehab center told me it was post acute withdrawal syndrome (which explains why I've always relapsed in week 3 of my previous attempts at white-knuckle sobriety).  ..It's certainly nice to understand why I feel like I'm on the brink of madness every hour and then a zombie in the next but I don't really know what to do about it.  It doesn't help that I'm in the midsts of finals (I'm trying to finish my last semester from rehab) and I'm stressed and can't form coherent thoughts.  I feel stuck.  I don't have the time to do all the normal de-stressing tactics because I have to study but I can't study because I'm in PAWS.  ..Does anyone have any advice to get me through these next 8 days?  After that I can do all the self-care in the world.  
----------immediate responses--------

 Do alot of walking to release the madness and drink alot of water.This is the period you have to make it through. I really don't know what PAWS is but you have to have a break through that is agonizing. This will empower you to make it through all the other trials you will go through. You can  always look back on this main one and say " I made it through that ---I can make it through this one ".
The facility I attended recognized PAWS for what it was and my physician there prescribed me non-addictive medications to help me with the miserable physical symptoms. Eating well exercising when I felt well enough to resting when I could. Staying *super* close with a sober network of people helped out a great deal too. Whether in person or by phone or text I was able to contact someone if I was feeling terrible. ..Break up your study time into manageable chunks--prioritize what needs work now what can come next what can be done tomorrow. You *can* do this.
Use excercise strategically don't over do it but spend time learning the basics of different muscles and practice training them. Cognitive light work and physical excercise can help mitigate symptoms ..Also ..Practice mindfulness ! Take a step back and observe I really enjoy the benefits from this tek even now after years away :) good luck
Thanks for posting this.  I didn't know this was a thing but it helps explain my frustrating exhaustion and inexplicable emotions.  Thank you!
