-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6betxt/i_went_to_my_1st_aa_meeting_and_i_felt_as_if_i/

.I went to my first meeting tonight. I identified myself as a first timer so the meeting turned into a newcomers meeting. I of course felt very uncomfortable and terrified being put so on the spot my first meeting. I introduced myself and told the group that I have been sober for almost 5 months prior to coming to the meeting. I told them I really just want to listen and try to see what the program is all about before really jumping into telling my story. ..The meeting continued with many members telling their stories. Many of them made me feel as though my personal struggle pales in comparison to theirs. This was all fine and well. I anticipated this before coming as I am 25 and have identified the problem earlier than many. ..My issue with the meeting came after when I was asked if I had sought treatment to get sober by one member of the group. I told him that I did it on my own with the help of family and friends. I received a skeptical look from this member. I brushed this off. ..I began talking to another member who told me "IF you really are an alcoholic then I hope you come back". ..This may be totally in my head but I felt as if this was a loaded statement. Why would I be there if I didn't think I was an alcoholic? Isn't this a dangerous thing to say to newly sober individual?..I have a sober friend who has been through the program. He told me that it is possible some members may feel as if my specific situation is suspect in that I largely got sober without a program to fall back on. ..I guess what I'm getting at is---is it abnormal that I was able to quit on my own? Does this truly bother some members of AA that my struggle may not have been as strenuous as theirs? Or is this just a normal paranoid feeling that many new member deal with?..Any response is much appreciated. ..
----------immediate responses--------

You're fine. Just because someone's been sober for a bit doesn't mean they dont have problems..."The only requirement for membership is a desire to stop drinking". There's a chair there for you if you choose to sit in it...
We are told to not compare ourselves with others but to identify. That's was really hard for me to do when first came into the rooms... But I finally got it and it helped me with my decision that I am an alcoholic...Yes you may have stopped on your own before coming into the rooms... We all did numerous times. The thing was I could never stayed stopped for long nor did ever take a look at myself or seek help...Here's the thing... I don't know why this program works... I don't know why this group of people that I hated and looked down upon saved my life... It doesn't matter... I don't care anymore... I'm truly sober for the first times in my life and very thankful...Don't leave till the miracle happens cause it will
I would say it is unusual that you could stay away from alcohol on your own for that long. usually people come in after daily drinking or a long binge...We don't label anyone as an alcoholic we let them make that conclusion on their own. And many newcomers when questioned will say "i'm not sure if i'm an alcoholic or not" probably having second thoughts after hearing all of the scary stuff we do to stay sober. i agree though I bet the number of non-alcoholics who came to meetings is an incredibly small number...I have been at my meeting when we had a newcomer and the chairperson that night made the decision to "make it a first step meeting". I don't usually like it for just the reasons you described it is common. ..As you said the new person may feel uncomfortable as everyone starts talking directly to them and i have seen members sharing in the way you described usually someone relatively new starts talking down to them and saying things like " i spilled more booze on my tie than you drank" not exactly but the attitude is there I'm not sure why they do it. When we make it a newcomers meeting this opens the door for some of this. It also is a time for many members to shine nothing is ever all good or all bad some people who do not speak up much will use this as an opportunity to be understanding and helpful and encouraging and caring. ..When a meeting is centered around you you will get all of it the good and the bad but what if you came to a meeting and nobody cared nobody shook your hand or came up to you after to talk they all just left you alone like a part of you wanted. 
Until you're "stage 4 ready" AA won't work...https://i.imgur.com/U5BA1fB.jpg
Hello and good job reaching out.  ...Great work on your 5 months; and working up the courage to go to a meeting.  ...It's probably a combination of a little paranoia on your part and a couple of folks in the rooms that need to work their own program a little more diligently. ...Was there anything positive about the meeting that you experienced?..
It does seem weird when strangers are talking to you for an hour about things most people don't talk about. I'm new and this happened a few times. and I'm thinking please just go about you business I just want to see what you would normally have for a topic. But I like the people and yah there's a couple dorks but but all are shocking 
Find another meeting if the group is not going to be nice and is combative because your "alcoholism" doesnt meet their criteria then screw them. I would be horrified if someone treated a new person like that at my spot.  
&gt;is it abnormal that I was able to quit on my own? ..I'd say it's somewhat unusual but far from unheard of. I know a number of people who joined AA after being sober a while. ..&gt;Or is this just a normal paranoid feeling that many new member deal with?..It is. I felt exactly the same way. It's like the first day of school when you are sure everyone is judging you behind your back.
The only requirement for membership is a desire to stop drinking/stay sober. Find a different meeting man that meeting sounds terrible. 
Listen you don't need to go to the bottom floor before you get off the elevator. You just got off sooner than them...Read the Big Book. You'll find a chapter in there dedicated to "high bottom" alcoholism. It might fit it might not. Either way read the book. It's enlightening. ..I felt like an imposter in the beginning. Keep going to meetings. Don't just try one. Keep trying all sorts of meetings. You'll find the right meeting. ..Keep your ears open. Listen long enough you'll hear your story. Listen for your sponsor. When you hear someone speak you'll say to yourself that's the kind of sobriety I want. ..People come and go in these meetings. You don't get much recognition in the beginning. You'll need to show up for months before people will start realizing you putting in the work.  ..Work work work it doesn't work unless you work it. Do a book study. I am not sure why but the book studies seem more focused on sobriety. They seem more genuine more open more welcoming. ..Good luck with your sobriety. 
I've lived in areas where the local tradition was to make the topic the first step every time a newcomer announced themselves. It sounds like that may be true where you're located. I've also heard "If you're an alcoholic you've come to the right place" fairly often. The "if" is meant to let the newcomer decide for themselves whether or not they're an alcoholic. Give it a few more meetings before you decide they're all talking down to you. Try some young people's meetings--you're far from the only under-thirty to get sober and you may find them easier to identify with.
I got sober on my own early too (I'm 23). I was fed up with the way I was living and being sober was imperative for me. I didn't have a choice if I wanted a fulfilled life. I've always been a harsh dedicated and honest person. I was strict with myself told myself there was no room for funny business and adapted to sober living. I wasn't going to end up like my dad and I wasn't going to waste my twenties miserable and drunk. I saw the future and I refused to be one of those people who looked back on their lives with regrets over wasted time. I don't want to be unhealthy I have had enough unhealthy. I did not want alcohol controlling me and dictating my decisions. It made logical sense to me and as a pragmatic person sobriety was the only rational option for me.  So I didn't use AA or groups I relied on myself and my will to be better. People who compare war stories are juvenile. No matter the circumstances the feelings are the same. So you are a "better" alcoholic or addict than me. Congratulations! You win. It's like what are you gaining from this notion of "you havent had it bad enough yet". Why on earth would you want it to get worse for me? Or end up deeper into my addiction? I'm self aware and ready for change. Sorry for the rant it just bothers me when people compare "who has it worst". Life is fucking hard. Everybody struggles. And personally I always find joy in realizing someone has possibly dealt with less wasn't as burdened and had more time content than not. 
I try to remember if there are 5 annoying worthless people in a meeting of a 100 - those are the 5 I usually meet first. If you come into AA sober as I did you will not be part of the narrative that "AA saved my life". Don't worry - they will call you a "dry drunk" soon enough. I would also ignore these people and it might be nice to have a support group of people who are sober to spend some time with. Might not. Some of the nicest people I met in AA are the most quiet. You do need to go along to get along or the bible thumpers will harass you non-stop. Just my experience. 
In the words of the sponsor who saved my life:.If you are not a real alcoholic - you will damn sure do until one comes along. - Charles Hood 1995
Thank you to everyone for the comments. This has been very helpful. I won't let one meeting ruin the program for me. I'm going to try this group again and shop around a few others as well. ..
*I began talking to another member who told me "IF you really are an alcoholic then I hope you come back.*...It's very common for people to go to one meeting and decide they aren't an alcoholic and never come back.  I'd say 80% do this...
