-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6bk4sb/83_days_of_sobriety/

Clear head new vision rediscovered purpose reconstructed self image. .The scariest part of my mid twenties was believing I was becoming someone I did not like. Looking in the mirror on a Sunday and believing that this is who I was becoming. That my thoughts were real and genuine. Enter Anxiety Attacks. Enter manic depression. Enter self hatred and self loathing. Ok that's fine. This is who I am and I can live with it. I can find ways to numb this feeling and keep the ball rolling. Shit I can even have some fun along the way. I can get up and even workout to feel a little better. I can eat healthy 4 days a week to convince myself I am treating my body well. I can listen to self help books and podcasts and pick out parts that I want to hear and ignore the others. I can go on trips and overdo things but come "back to reality" when I get back. What if I don't want to face that reality? What if those plane rides hungover those car rides where I cant bear to look at myself when i look in the rear view mirror where I have to watch a movie or listen to something unrelated to my life to ignore the real thoughts and feeling I am having? Knowing that deep down I am destroying my body but more importantly ruining relationships and my own reputation. .At 27 1/2 years old I finally checked my ego and decided I should talk to someone about it. But not someone who I drink with and who might be going through the same stuff on their own schedule. Not a conversation that leads to both of us feeling ok about what we are doing because we are both doing it. After all misery loves company. I needed to talk to someone who admitted they lost control. All it took for me was an email. An email that took 3 minutes to write but about 20 minutes to click "send". I sat there and stared at what I wrote. It was simple and true. But as soon as I sent it I was admitting defeat. I was admitting I lost control. Some substance was controlling me and changing me. What a blow to my ego. Fuck it I was so close to doing something drastic to myself that I was desperate. "Send" .This is the email I wrote:.Hey        .I am really not sure where you are with this but as I understand it you quit drinking a while back. I am considering doing the same. The blackouts and embarrassment are piling up for me and I really want to make some sort of a change. Do you have some time this week or next to sit down for a cup of coffee or lunch to share your story and let me ask you some questions about this? Again I am not sure where you are with this and if it is the wrong time please just let me know. .Thanks.Nick .(phone #).Within 5 minutes I got a call. He let me know he was sober and wanted to know if I would like to meet for coffee that evening just to talk. I agreed verbally. Everyday I am grateful for this person and the phone call they made to me..It was hard to make it to that meeting. I was telling myself dozens of reasons not to go and to text him and take the easy way out. But I agreed verbally so I went. It was a casual cup of coffee at Starbucks. He was there to listen and he made me feel comfortable by sharing with me some of his struggles and some stories of his past. To be honest I had no idea if anyone else had the same thoughts I did. The anxiety attacks the loss of control the self hatred. I thought I was going crazy until I heard him talk about it. He also let me know there is a way out. He shared with me how he helps manage his life and for him that was AA. Its a safe place where you can just go to listen where you can share your thoughts/stories/feelings and receive absolutely zero judgement. AA is a lot of things to a lot of people but for me having a safe place with ZERO judgement is the best part of it. I don't go to meetings religiously but I agree with their foundation. And the only requirement to be a member is the desire to stop drinking. There is no membership fee or any other requirement. AA does not affiliate with any political/religious group. Its open safe and non judgmental..The first few weeks were awful. The desire to drink was outrageous. But even more so admitting that I had an uncontrollable desire to drink was the ultimate blow to my pride/ego. Listening to others and what they are going through helps. Getting a sponsor whom you can call at any time is crucial. Someone who understands what you are going through and WANTS to help you because it also helps them stay on track. I ate a lot and I drank a lot of coffee. I couldn't sleep but eventually I slept. I was cranky but I found other ways to release energy. More trips to the gym. Starting the podcast I had always talked about. Little by little I built off of my progress. Pretty soon I felt momentum. I regained confidence to go to social events and be sober. I was able to little by little tell people I quit drinking (even if I just told them I was taking a break for a little while). I was so incredibly scared to tell this to my friends. I have a reputation to uphold! I am the life of the party! I pour the shot and get the ball rolling before going out! What role was I gonna play now??? But once I saw the support of some friends I gained confidence and felt momentum. The majority of my friends were excited for me. Some of them made fun of me and made me feel guilty. Turns out these were not my real friends (shocker!). I was scared to lose these friends. Scared to admit they were drinking buddies not friends. But I got over it. I reconnected with people from my past who have faded away. People I was ashamed to reach out to because I was embarrassed at who I was becoming. I realized I hated myself. But the new me reached out and the response was incredible. Gaining this confidence helps me choose who I want to spend time with and who will help me become the person I am capable of becoming. .Now I am 83 days sober. I drink non alcoholic beer or a soda water with lime in some settings when I really feel the need to have a drink or just don't feel like explaining myself. It works great! I lost 15 lbs of fat and I have a body closer to the standard I set for myself and most importantly I believe that I can shape my body into whatever I want. I am in control of it. I wake up on Saturday and Sunday mornings without fear of what I did or who I pissed off the night before. Before I would go the entire day without checking my phone because I was so scared to see what drunk nick said or did. I am now in control. I can control my end of the relationships I have with others. I can control what I put into my body and mind. If I am in a situation my gut tells me not to be in I can leave. I can drive at any time of the day/night without worrying about getting pulled over. I BELIEVE I CAN ACCOMPLISH ANYTHING. I am in control of my life from this point forward all because I admitted to myself (through someone else) that something else was controlling me. .Momentum is an amazing thing. It can really become and unstoppable force. To get a snow ball rolling down a hill first you have to pack snow into a ball and it takes energy and effort. Once you get it rolling it builds off itself and the hill does all the work. Pack the snowball NOW and see what happens. 
----------immediate responses--------

I really needed to read this tonight! Struggling with the sleeping thing I am relieved to know it gets better just hard to fight with my brain and the thought that I could get to sleep with a drink I guess. But reading stories like yours I'm learning that I can make it through and gain so much. Be proud of your days you are doing so well
That's an amazing inspiration day 23 here I can't drink near beer because I literally would be hoping for a buzz. It's so sick. I'm so sick wtf! I'm 37 and have no idea what to do with myself I'm went to crazy meetings and took 2 weeks off I work for myself as a crafts man in the garage and it makes me money but I really don't know when I should take a day off. I used to take a day off for a hangover or wake up still kind of drunk and go fishing I'm singleas of 2 months ago no kids I guess that's good if I wanted to do something I have nothing stopping me. It's an adjustment like nothing before. Self pity is now my greatest burden. I can drive anytime anywhere but no place I feel like going. I'm happy for you and made me excited reading it. At this point in your recovery did you have similar feelings of lack of direction? Alcohol made all my decisions. Each day is like a whole new experience at this point in recovery I want to drink but it's a mild easily dismissed urge it's not my biggest problem I'm ready to give this time and it's so much easier by the day oh well back to work!!! 
Great post!!!  Not so great formating!  ;)  You've got any nice active mind which should hopefully serve you well on this road.  When the pink cloud fades it seems you've set yourself up well to adjust to the changes we get to experience for as long as we choose to accept learn and grow with from them.
Awesome fucking post I'm hyped about your prospects give it your best 
