-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6cqfuj/i_cant_stand_some_people_in_aa_it_makes_me_not/

For the most part AA has been good to me but lately I just can't stand some people..The lady who shares at every meeting the same tired story about her kids..The guy who constantly quotes big book pages he just seems so insincere and like a robot. .The old timer who says the disease is doing push ups in the parking lot..But mostly I can't stand the women they constantly whine about life and are so over dramatic..Also people who've been sober for years who constantly dwell on the past and war stories see people seem pathetic. .And there was one woman who hadn't had a drink in like 10 years and she reset her day count because she accidently had a sip of alcohol. What a stupid thing to do what is the point of resetting your day count she claims she relapsed. .Can anyone relate to me? 
----------immediate responses--------

I thought the exact same way you do...right before I stopped going to meetings and inevitably relapsed
I can relate. I am a female. I got sober young  and still go to meetings. Maybe change your meetings. Remember some are sicker than others. Maybe go to big book meetings or men's meetings. Topic meetings are good. I just needed a few sane people to hang around. I have had some people in my meetings who have drove me nuts in fact one of them moved in the house next to me!!  Just keep going. We need sane people to keep going lol. I try not to be judgmental but sometimes I am :(. Also my mother who was in AA and in mental health  industry always told me non alcoholics with mental issues attend meetings because it is like therapy. But who am I to say they aren't alcoholics too. I hope I made sense 
Hiya. I feel your pain. There was this great old guy may his memory be a blessing that always shared about how he fell to his knees in the VA hospital and found the power. ..Here are four things that helped me through that phase and what helps me through that phase when it comes back every now and then. I can promise you if you make it through this time you will be affected by it again and again. *grins* Again these are things that helped me. I am NOT telling you what to do. You will find people that really truly work the program that way. There are people that just share **their** experience strength and hope. ...1) People are people and most people love to talk. Sober people just maybe get to talk about their problems more than normal people. Once you start listening in the real world you will get sick of the things out there too. My parents may their memories be a blessing started repeating their stories in their final years. I would give almost anything to hear them tell me even the most boring ones one more time. ..2) One of the many things I have gotten out of recovery is "that it is all about others". Well not everything is about others but once we have families and jobs and neighbors and communities these others are important. And there is nothing more respectful than to listen. I love that I have gotten extra gifts in sobriety and I have learned how to listen...3) I learned that those rooms are practice for the real world. If I can learn how to be tolerant and patient with people just trying to do the next right thing I can be tolerant and patient with people in the real world when they are trying to do the next right thing or when they are sick or when they need help. I get to practice handling annoying people or aggressive people or close-minded people etc. ..4) AA is just normal people. It is not led by a psychologist or psychiatrist. AA is not filled with scholars or great speakers. Heck most of the people in my home group only have a High School diploma. So most people don't really know how to speak well to organize their thoughts to give proper focused and structured support to an argument. 
When I had complaints like yours my sponsor told me it was an opportunity to learn patience and tolerance. ..Damn!
Some people share shitty but they don't go to every meeting. I moved meetings a while ago this kind of thing tends to congeagate in one place I'm glad I moved been happy where I'm at :)
Hmm. Too bad there isn't some sort of process out there somewhere to deal with feelings toward others like this? Oh wait a second... there is. And guess what mister; AA is it. .   Has it occurred to you that every single time you go there a precise road map to resolving these feelings is at your feet? .  Sponsor 4th step on and on.... that's what we do here........   .   Best of luck. 
Oh yes I can relate what did your sponsor say when you told him this story?..You will be quite surprised to learn that the problem is YOU. You are the common denominator in all of those situations. You probably are looking for a way out of doing the steps congratulations you have found one. If I can use my wonderful powers of judgement and prove everyone at the meetings is an idiot then i don't have to listen to them. Why would I question them I have shown such great ability for accurate judgement of people and situations before. ( this is sarcasm)..Yes there are annoying people at the meetings but they may be more sober and happier than you it is quite possible that you could learn a lot from these people that you have judged to be inferior to you...If you are still reading you are probably angry at me but i will say that I have struggled with this too and these attitudes will only help you in getting drunk you must aquire humility in order to stay sober.
I have 30 days I went to 2 meetings today and met briefly with my sponsor I didn't share at either meeting because everyone else rambles on and on about whatever the hell they're talking about. Some people talk so quiet you could listen even if you tried. I found myself picturing one flew over the koo-koos nest minus nurse ratchet. I have nothing to contribute but feel like I want to talk just to vent all the shit from the last 30 days. I have the worst attitude and try to hide it as best I can and I wear a collared shirt to show respect. But inside I'm full of disdain for so much. Make a list of people I've wronged? How about a list of people that have shit all over me? That's a long list I would write enthusiastically. And this I assume is why I became an alcoholic. Because it's where I naturally go to. Being self centered blameless a victim ego driven just down right nasty still the same 30 days in. Believe me I want to change. One thing I can say is that when I'm in a good mood some people have great things to share when I'm in a nasty mood that person magically turns into an idiot asshole. This is basically the take away from 30 days but I haven't drank and I do what my sponsor tells me because I suck at life and he seems to be better at it. 
Dealing with anger when you're sober sucks. Mix up your meetings try new ones. Try NA. One of the biggest surprises to me as I worked through the steps was how assholes seemed to be fewer and far between.
I quit going because of the lady who shares the same story over and over and over. Just go to a different location or time.
There were a lot of people in the bars that I couldn't stand. I never considered not going to bars because of them. 
Do you share at meetings?
Why do you go to AA?
As said below our teachers come wearing some pretty strange costumes.....Try other meetings. practice meditation while the woman shares... There's a guy I use for my bathroom break... and BTW the woman's daycount is hers to reset...
Principles before personalities. 
There have been quite a few posts that i have read and have been tempted to type responses to because i feel so strongly about the program that saved me but then the advice "don't feed the trolls" kicks in and i stop. I have really felt good reading everyone's answers on here so many great comments. I got a little sarcastic in mine and that probably is not the way to go especially if you are trying to help someone...I get the feeling that we are not feeding a troll here but that we are overwhelming ( i cannot think of a better word) a scared angry human being and not putting up with any bullshit arguments and when he tries to take another path we collectively grab him point him to the steps and say there! go this way despite his protestations as a whole we keep pushing him in that direction. We try to do it with love he cannot fight against all of us and sooner or later he will get tired and if he cannot find anyone to agree with him he just might question his own thinking. This has helped me. 
Oh God be teaching you tolerance and acceptance right now!  Sounds like an opportunity for you to bring something to the meeting  rather than not being satisfied with what you're sponging from it.  A program friend of mine always looks for that one little nugget during a meeting that impacts him.  Helps him get through the 99.5% of the repeating dreck he hears.
    I can absolutely relate. One thing to consider is that I've never been to a workplace party family dinner store etc. where some people didn't bug me. It's OK if some people bug me I try to act decently and gravitate to people whose company I enjoy. Thanks for the share.
Ok... I have read through most of the comments in this thread and wanted to try to reply without prejudice:..*  The lady that always shares the same tired story about her kids. - As a mom and alcoholic I have a lot of guilt and shame about my kids.  Maybe it's just her way to purging her shame -. and it's talking about it that keeps her sober. ..* But mostly I can't stand the women they constantly whine about life and are so over dramatic..Solution - go to men's meetings so you don't have to listen to her or women.. .* The guy who constantly quotes big book pages he just seems so insincere and like a robot. The old timer who says the disease is doing push ups in the parking lot..Solution:  Drive a little father and attend different meetings than these people attend.  If they show up at XX-place on Tuesday nights - then go to YY-place on Tuesday nights.  They can't be in both places the same night. :) ..*  And there was one woman who hadn't had a drink in like 10 years and she reset her day count because she accidentally had a sip of alcohol..Solution - let her work her program and she will probably not try to work yours. ..I have been to lots and lots of meetings over the years.  Some I have loved!  Some I have not liked at ALL.  So I attended the ones I liked.  Even if it meant rearranging some things or driving a little farther. ..&gt;Can anyone relate to me?..Sure.  Kind of.  I don't like everyone I meet in AA.  I don't like everyone I meet at the supermarket either. ..But I never ever stopped working on my sobriety.  I not only needed to get sober I needed to STAY STOPPED. ..My disease was doing push-ups in the parking lot ;) and my alcoholism tried to convince me every time I was tired or cranky or overwhelmed - that I didn't need AA.  In fact my alcoholism wanted me to bail. So I kept going and found meetings there were relevant and helpful. ..If you hate AA there are other programs. Smart. Treatment centers. SOS. LifeRing.  ..I don't know anything about them but AA was free and convenient for me.  And it saved my life. 
Yea I totally understand. That's why we made this video a couple months ago. Even has the parking lot line...https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jp_ITIXw3vU..End of the day what works for me is laughing at the dumb stuff and internalizing the quality aspects like the principles behind the steps.
Sure can relate. Irritating people who don't do what I think they should are all over. ..But remember these people that you mention could be even worse...they could be intolerant.
I found myself looking down on the people of AA when my sobriety was most at risk. It was my alcoholic brain judging others and telling me that I could not possibly relate to them or have compassion for them. My alcoholism is selfish and ego-driven. I've gone to  meetings and hated the people and then found some sobriety and serenity and gone to those very same meetings with the very same people and appreciated how they contributed to my sobriety. In my experience the problem was me.
There's meetings I hate- and I totally get the characters you're talking about and why they're so annoying.   Have you tried finding other meetings?
It sounds like you need a hug :-P
yes. first of all meetings aren't group therapy. people shouldn't be going to meetings and unloading unless they're asking for help and are about to drink or hurt themselves or someone else. ..meetings are where people meet to talk about the solution. change meetings the one you go to doesn't sound like a good one at all. try a big book meeting? I moved about six months ago and i hate the meetings here. i also don't like the people.. but i think it might be me. 
