-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6cxzy6/struggling/

Today is day 75 for me. I've been having a hard time lately and I picked up a bottle of whiskey. I haven't started drinking yet but I feel like it's only a matter of time before the obsession leads to the first drink
----------immediate responses--------

I'm curious what people have to say I have 12 pack "for guests." I have no guests. But i like knowing it's here if everything goes to hell. It's nuts I know. But I like having it. 
How to avoid the first drink?  The obsession?  Do it the AA way.  Get rid of that whiskey...
Go to a meeting. Reminds yourself why you don't want that whiskey. And throw it away. 
Toss that shit out. Go to a meeting. Remind yourself why you got sober in the first place.
You're right. It's only a matter of time unless you pour that crap out and sit yourself in a meeting. Get in touch with your sponsor pronto. You do have one yes? ..I'm three years in and still don't like the idea of having wine sitting around in the house. I don't want to drink it. It just brings back memories of how much of a stupid *ass* I was when I used to drink it. No. Thanks.
What feeling are you after ?
Throw that crap out!.Call someone or get to a meeting and share about it
I've been playing with fire all night. Still haven't drank but I opened it and smelled it. Even poured myself a shot.  My sponsor convinced me to go to a meeting with her.  I'm so in self today that it didn't do much. I don't see the point in living. 
I'm on day 64.  I haven't been to a meeting at all yet.  I changed my focus on getting healthy and I spend about an hour a day running and doing some exercises.  On the hard days I go right after work at night so the only thing I can think of is getting some rest.  ..In the past month.  I've noticed changes in my body. I have more energy every day and I'm generally more happy than I ever have been.  All I can think of is getting rock hard abs and getting bigger...I think of a drink sometimes but when I do.  I just exercise.
Yes I did. Don't ask me how 
Pour that shit out and go to a meeting.
[Update] I woke up this morning and tossed the bottle. Thank you to all who replied. You all helped me stay away from that first drink last night. 
