-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6d7nvr/sponsor_advice/

I have had the same sponsor for about a year and a half maybe two years. This March completed three years that I have been in the program. Not to be confused that I have been sober this entire three years. I had a total of three sponsors before this guy. If I think about it really just one the other two were a couple old-timers I just talked to a couple of times never really got into step work... Well this current sponsor has stuck by me through my multiple relapses. Currently I honestly feel that I have no more chances. May 4th I did the same damn thing and went out binge drinking ended up driving my unit in a black out and THANK GOD I made it home. One time I crashed my fianc 's vehicle and ended up in rehab another time I actually totaled truck and got a DWI that Is currently still active. Yes this damn insanity I am out drunk driving while on trial for a DWI. But something is different this time. I have gone to a meeting every single day since. .After this last relapse or slip whatever you want to call it my sponsor told me to start the 90 in 90. ..About a year ago we were meeting twice a week and I was actually getting into some step work.  Well what I think was step work anyway  he had me doing some journaling. That only lasted about two months at the most so maybe a total of six meetings outside of our weekly AA meeting where we were alone ate dinner and talked and he read what I was writing. ..Now I just see him once a week at a meeting I drive about 45 minutes to. Now with this last relapse and going to all these meetings I really enjoy these meetings and I really want to start doing some step work. I want to the promises the big book talks about to come true in my life and I am eager to start working. But all he told me to do was the 90 in 90...Is this normal? I feel like I should be doing some type of step work or something with a pen and a paper. ..The meetings I have been going to everyday during my lunch hour I am thinking of reaching out to a few different people there but I don't know how I should stop going to my current sponsor or just have two or what I should do at this point...Any recommendations from anybody who has experience with this or anybody who has actually sponsored does this sound right? Do I stick with my current sponsor?..I cannot explain it but something is different this go-round every meeting I am eager to get to and by the time I am leaving I am ready to go to another one. I love everything I'm hearing The promises at the end of the meeting really really stick out to me now. I can't explain it all I know is that I honestly believe I am out of chances and the next time I drink will be very very bad therefore I can never EVER drink again!
----------immediate responses--------

This is what contemporary AA suggests to go to 90 meetings in 90 days. That's a good start but going to meetings is only a part of it.  Start working the steps ask your current sponsor and if she doesn't want to start the steps then get a new sponsor.  
He's probably suggesting that because it's really obvious that you are not at all committed to AA. You've shown that over and over friend. Not at all a criticism as this is part of a lot of stories but step work is useless until step one is done 100% correct. You aren't there yet clearly. .   I'd do the same thing. Do 90 in 90 and don't drink and I'd take you through the steps. It's a waste of time otherwise.. and our book tells us not to deprive another who is willing to do the work for someone who isn't. .   Hard truth but there is is. He wants to see action not bullshit. Sounds like a perfect sponsor in my opinion. 
Also you've had 3 sponsors and haven't stayed sober. That's not "in the program". The program isn't sitting in meetings the program is the first 164 pages of the book.. which starts with step one. It doesn't sound to me like you are there.. 
The relationship is as important to the sponsor as the sponsee so they may be giving you a simple direction to start again since you relapsed to see if you can follow it. That's not a judgement if you can't follow it they may not be able to help you which is bad for you bad for them bad for everyone. You can change sponsors at any time- you just tell them so. You can also read ahead in the big book and if you like writing start considering the first 3 steps on your own. But absolutely talk to lots of people and if you find a better fit go for it just keep an eye on yourself and make sure you're not resisting the sponsor's directions for other reasons (what with our tendancy as alcoholics to think we know better than others) 
There is a friend of mine who has been sober a long time and tells a great story that is not heard that often and it applies here...He was sober a few months and after hearing speakers say "the answer is to do the twelve steps" he approached his sponsor and requested that they do them. His sponsor replied "you aren't ready yet wait a little while". He did not like this answer and kept asking different guys until he finally found one who would take him through the steps. ..There is a lot of grey area here and not really any black and white rules you are free to do exactly what my friend did. I am only hearing your side of the story and i am curious as to why your sponsor may be saying that he may have a very good reason...You can do quite a lot of "step-work" on your own without a sponsor read the big book understand what you read inquire as to if there are any big book studies going on in your area people generally do them in their homes. Journalling is great joining a group and setting up and doing coffee will teach you a lot...(Pen and paper) Step one: List 3 examples from your life of the obsession with alcohol or the sequence of events which lead to you drinking after a period of sobriety... list 3 examples from your life of the "phenomenon of craving" described in the book Alcoholics Anonymous which occurs after the first drink...List as many examples as you can of how your life is unmanageable with and without alcohol...Does this help?
&gt;I really want to start doing some step work...The promises you're looking for come from working the steps. What's stopping you? All of the info you need to work the steps is in the Big Book. Even more info is in the 12x12.
Instead of being certain you can never-ever drink again a more useful outlook might be that the chances are very high that you will drink again. I would not have done the work involved in the steps if I hadn't believed that in my case. I had zero interest in being wonderful helping others or living spiritually when new...just didn't want to die a drunk. My taking the steps was in hopes of avoiding what I had come to see as the  inevitable...I most certainly would drink again...Just a thought.
Everyone works a bit differently. This is just my experience in my sponsorship family and in my years of continuous sobriety.....My sponsor waits until all of her sponsees have 30 days before going through the book and suggests heavily that we do the same with our sponsees. And even then we don't start Step 1 until we get to Bill's Story. So that's another of couple weeks before we literally start the steps pen to paper. I used to disagree with this until I experienced sponsoring a chronic relapser. Nothing got done. We'd start she'd drink we'd start over. Rinse repeat. Could you relapse on day 91? Sure people can relapse whenever - but chances are much lower if you're doing an honest 90 in 90 with your ears open calling your sponsor every day reading the text on your own writing gratitude lists praying reaching out to someone who has even one less day than you. You get the solution in the steps but I don't blame sponsors for wanting to see a level of willingness and commitment from sponsees before investing time and energy in taking them through the work...I'm inclined to think that your sponsor just wants to see if you have willingness to take suggestions surrender to the program humble yourself and follow through. Ask him what he's thinking or has planned. You say something is different this time around - maybe he just needs to see that too.
Most of what I've read in this thread is absolute ridiculous bullshit. The program isn't in the meetings that's the fellowship. It's also important so keep doing that but the program is in the book and the actions it suggests. Waiting 3 months to start working steps is fucking ridiculous and an ego move by the "sponsor". My job isn't to be some judge of whether or not you're "ready" or "worthy of my time". Who the fuck am I except for another alcoholic who met someone else willing to take me through the steps and show me where I was insane. Also I would suggest not working the steps yourself. It's asking a delusional brain to fix a delusional brain. Find someone who has some experience that is willing to take you through the steps. 
Sounds to me like you need a new sponsor. If your going to AA and still drinking (as I did) then something is clearly not right. A bigbook kinda sponsor one that works solely from the text helped me after 5 years of relapsing. Like you I had a few other "sponsors" who were really just as clueless as I was. Anyway you don't owe anybody your sobriety so if you want to try working with someone else why not?! I've advised one of my Sponsee's to go work with another guy for a while - it'll be a good learning experience for him and the other guy might know stuff I don't. I just want him to have the best chance at sobriety that he can have. 
