-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6d7t21/question_from_the_outside/

I don't have a problem with alcohol- I really don't. ..I do have manic depression and as such should not and will not be drinking again. I've had terrible manic depressive and mixed episodes on alcohol (like one beer and I spiral) and potentially lost the love of my life as a result. I'm working on that but mostly working on myself. That means therapy meds a healthy lifestyle and no more alcohol. Not special occasions not sometimes never again. I again don't really care except that all of my current friends drink and I fear that I would accept "one is ok."..So I respectfully ask- If someone who should not be drinking for medical reasons but does not struggle with addiction attends the meetings- is that disrespectful?..I feel like it's important to surround myself with a community dedicated to not drinking for my own separate recovery but I would never want to dissuade someone else's for my own benefit (like insult or injure someone in AA)...Please lend me your opinions. ..UPDATE: I went to a meeting the next morning. I'm glad I did. Thank you everyone!
----------immediate responses--------

No it's not at all disrespectful for you to attend AA meetings.  The only require for membership is a desire to stop drinking.  I suggest you attend a few meetings and get to know some people and read the big book.
There was a meeting I went to where a regular was in a similar predicament. He wasn't addicted to alcohol but couldn't drink anymore due to a heart condition. He was warmly accepted.
You'd certainly be welcome at any meetings my I attend.  Come on in.  Hit several different meetings and find those that work best for you.  You have a desire to stop drinking that's all that matters.  If you catch any hell from people for anything that's their problem.  Your personal inventory is yours.  You're always welcome here too so stick around if you like what AA has to offer.
In my opinion working the program can benefit anyone. If you have a drinking or drug problem or not. You might meet someone you can help as well.
&gt; If someone who should not be drinking for medical reasons but does not struggle with addiction attends the meetings- is that disrespectful?..I suggest you check out open AA meetings first. I sat in on many open AA meetings prior to qualifying myself.
Definitely check out an open meeting and I think you should feel free to attend closed ones as well. As others have mentioned the only requirement for attending a closed AA meeting  is a desire to stop drinking. You don't have to identify as an alcoholic. ANYONE can attend an open meeting. If you google your city + AA meetings you should find a local directory/schedule of meetings near you. It will also lost what kind of meeting: open/closed men/women speaker/big book etc.  Best wishes to you. :)
The as big book says "the only requirement for membership is a desire to stop drinking."..No one will quiz you on how bad you want to quit or why. There's no membership cards. Congrats on your first meeting!
