-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6daux2/my_dad_has_relapsed_after_about_4_months_being/

Like the title says. My dad is in a desparate state and is downing 750ml bottles of vodka. My mum wants to leave him (after fighting for him and the marriage for a very long time). We feel that if we leave him he'll probably kill himself. But we also have lives and can't take care of him constantly...The options are: mum leaves him and goes to stay somewhere else (very inconvenient for her) / mum kicks him out of the house (but what on earth will he do?)..Biggest concern is him killing himself if we leave him to his own devices...Any help from experienced people would be much appreciated.
----------immediate responses--------

r/Alanon 
I assume he knows about AA and doesn't attend?
Sounds like you are living in Europe? Is there any legal way to compel him to tx? In Miami we have a law called the marchman act that you can basically get s judge to order tx....
if you kick him out the law will pick him up and he 'll have to dry out in jail...the cheapest rehab you could  ever think of.
Probably no human power can relieve his alcoholism.  Sadly he is already killing himself in the current living situation.  I learned in Al-Anon that I need to take care of myself through healthy boundaries tough love loving detachment and not enabling.  Leaving him my be the consequence he needs to experience his own bottom.  Never ever deny the alcoholic his bottom because it may be the motivation needed to commence recovery.
Hello sober alcoholic here...You have been dealt a hand that nobody wants but there it is anyway. I agree with your options but will add to them. First there is no perfect solution or guarantee for this. So what ever is done there will be risk...There are many alcoholics who have said that finally losing their job or their family was the straw that broke the camel's back. It depends on the person and how much they value each of those. Also when an alcoholic is faced with these losses he is extremely vulnerable how will he react? Some finally agree to get help and surrender some surrender and feel that there is no hope and......Inside of the mind of an alcoholic is strange and terrible during this time no one can predict what the person will choose The best you can do is to provide them with treatment options and a ride to detox when you kick them out. But sometimes a few nights sleeping under a bridge will be the thing that will finally convince someone he has to get help you never know unfortunately...It does not always have to be this direct if your father is not a physical danger to the family you don't have to remove him from the home. you can put pressure on him while he stays there and continues to drink by stopping the things that you do to enable him and he will notice you may not think so at first and it will be tough on you to change but this has been an effective strategy...An important point that i learned from alanon is that anything you do will not make him get sober. He has to make that decision himself because if he does not want it he is doing it to get you off his back and will go back to drinking whenever he thinks it is safe. ..So you are not getting him sober but you can certainly stop helping him stay drunk and that will have benefits for you in the long run when you adopt it as an attitude expect opposition to your new actions but leaning on the members of Alanon at this point will provide strength...I highly recommend alanon because all of these useful things i typed i learned there. You cannot help him directly but living with a sick person has affected you negatively and if you start taking care of you the ripple effect may continue on to him but even if it doesn't your life will be better. Wouldn't it be nice to feel ok whether he gets sober or not to not have your peace of mind directly attached to the actions of an alcoholic alanon can help you cut the cord It's called "loving detatchment" a wonderful tool..
