-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6eunf1/advice_re_lunch_tomorrow_with_an_old_friend_who_i/

i have a friend who has been in and out of AA . She had 2 years relapsed  and I reunited with her took her to a couple of meetings. Then she fell of face of earth. I tried a couple of times to reach out no response. Well she contacted me via Facebook I asked her to lunch. not to get into all details but she doesn't seem to be doing good no job no money. She didn't ask but I said I'd treat to lunch . We're having lunch tomorrow. I don't want to harass her asking if she relapsed blah blah blah but I don't want to enable (I know I already did by offering $) . What should I do  if anything?
----------immediate responses--------

Just ask hows she's doing whats going on and if you are close just ask "you been drinking?" ..I say this as someone who was in her seat about 2 weeks ago. Had over a year in the program then i ghosted from everyone and was drinking for 4 or 5 months. ..I got together with a buddy who shares the same sponsor for coffee to catch up. I didn't want to go and I had every intention of not telling him i was drinking again but after 15-20 mins of chatting and being a miserable he just asked it was way easier answering then volunteering the info. 
Let her know you care about her and are concerned. Ask if she wants help. 
Let go of expectations and just take her to lunch as you offered. If it comes up in conversation it comes up... it's not your business unless she makes it your business.  Be a loving and friendly ear get a warm meal in her belly and she will trust you.  If she doesn't want to talk about it yet she might soon and she will need someone she can be honest with. 
I'd enjoy the lunch with no expectations other than asking her to join you for lunch...Recently I had dinner with a friend and former co-worker that had/ has 2 years sober.  (I think she is still sober). ..She was fired a few months ago from a place we both used to work.  I heard this from other colleagues that still work there. . She didn't mention to me that she was no longer there... and in fact - made some comments that implied she IS still working there. ..She is my friend and not my sponsee so I let things slide.  For now. .We had a nice dinner and I suggested we do it again soon. ..We are not close friends - and so in this case - I wanted to give her a safe no-stress space to be.  As long as alcohol isn't involved at our meeting - I can support without going into things she clearly isn't ready to discuss with me. 
Treating to lunch is not enabling friends do that all the time. The thing is it will probably take her the whole lunch and maybe some coffee afterwards to tell you whatever it is she really wants to tell you. I would recommend just waiting her out and opening up the door. If she asks for money don't offer anything direct but talk about ways she can get help with that.
This has already been said but treating someone to lunch is definitely not enabling any unhealthy behavior. But to answer the question I would say go get lunch and enjoy it with no expectation. Look at it as a lunch with an old friend who you want to see and don't go in with any agenda. I've been in your shoes and have had the lunches or meet ups with people who've relapsed and it's honestly no different than lunch with anyone else. The problem is we all put a stigma on relapse and a lot of times think it's our duty to save people from it or convince people to come back to aa. She reaches out maybe she wants to get help and if she does it should be somewhat obvious maybe she's just lonely and needs a friend. When we put expectations on experiences we limit our ability to fully show up thus limiting our usefulness. 
Sometimes people want help but have a hard time asking for it. ..
