-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6fam5d/yesterday_at_a_conference_was_the_most_humbling/

i was on a host committee for a conference over the weekend and relapsed after a little over a year. i now have 4 days sober...when we host conferences the host committee is given out stuff to read up on stage in front of thousands of attendees. we get all dressed up and stand in front of hot lights and cameras. we have these people tell us they love us lots and lots and whole bunches. it's awesome...we also do a sobriety countdown. the person with the most time gives the 5 people with the least time big books that have been signed by all of the attendees at the conference...last night i should've been dressed to the nines reading the promises after the main speaker meeting. instead i looked like i had 3 days sober. and i stood up when they asked for my time. i started weeping. i was escorted to the stage and the host committee the same people that i thought absolutely hated me were clapping for me. they were hugging me loving on me welcoming me back. the gentleman asked me my name and how much time i had and when i looked out into the crowd i saw hundreds of people on their feet. and i looked into the crowd and saw some of my friends crying...i haven't felt god in a long time. i got raped recently and have blocked myself off from everyone around me. when i looked out into that room it's like i was broken open all over again. ..it was the most terrifying amazing needed feeling in the world. i came into AA with an ego. how? i dont know. but i did. and im happy. i feel different. i feel like that needed to happen to me yesterday. i am so grateful for alcoholics anonymous because it reminds me that i am absolutely not alone... ever. even when my thoughts have me totally convinced.
----------immediate responses--------

This is a wonderful! Thank you for sharing your experience. Kudos for 4 days!    
Young people's conferences save lives.  I want you to heal be sober and be happy.
Congratulations on 4 days sober! Proud of you!
Standing cheering for you as well.
This made me cry! ..I remember talking to my dad a long time ago and he asking how long I had been sober...When I told him 8 months he physically flinched. I should of - could of - would of - had years.  But I didn't...He just hugged me and gave me his 17 year chip - for luck.    ..We can come back..We SHOULD come back. .We can do it...Now I will try to stop crying because I am at work and my boss will look at me funny and ask me why I am bawling.    ..
