-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6fpkr3/idea_would_anyone_be_down_for_a_daily/

Hey everyone..I was thinking today about how I've been struggling somewhat with making it to meetings some days because of a new schedule I'm adjusting to. It occurred to me that it could be nice if we were able to collectively start a daily post with something akin to a meeting topic (a Big Book/Literature excerpt someone sharing their story or a topic for discussion) that people could respond to throughout the day. ..Of course this wouldn't be a replacement for meetings IRL just a nice way to share our experience strength and hope with each other on different sobriety topics...I know that I would personally love to participate in something like this (and I'm down to commit time and brainpower if people feel it is worth pursuing) but would anybody else? ..If so do you have any thoughts/suggestions/ideas for how we could make this happen? :) .
----------immediate responses--------

I think it is an interesting idea. I would try to contribute to something like that. Honestly it could be as simple as posting an excerpt or daily reflection or something in the morning. If you're really interested try posting something tomorrow morning and see if it takes off. 
I'm not sure if the advice membership of this sub would support a daily meeting but maybe weekly is a good place to start? I'd pop in once in a while. ..Maybe write up some "house keeping" guidelines and a format?..I've always liked having a discussion about a Grapevine Quote of the Day as a format but there's no end to options you could go with. 
I am sure the intent is good but would be concerned that such a thing might let a newcomer think this form is a substitute for going to meetings. Just a thought. 
Can you get auto mod to do it? Daily check in? They can post something diff each day of the week it could be like a different 'meeting' each day would be a cool venue to share and hear people's shares about a prompt other than a persons post- good idea I like it thanks for posting !
Great idea!  I have thought of this too. I was thinking of posting the "AA quote for the day" tomorrow morning.  Then people can share their thoughts if they like.  Let's see what happens.  Anyone else have thoughts on this?
"I started going to meetings a little early and resisted the urge to bolt out the door the minute the Lords Prayer was finished. I thought I might try some of that "get active" stuff so I volunteered to make coffee at a meeting I liked to attend....  It wasn't long before I found myself in the middle of Alcoholics Anonymous"."The key to belonging"  I am Responsible- The Hand of AA. Grapevine quote of the day. 
: )..I really liked reading your post this morning and i have a lot to respond to  i will try and be "to the point"...In my mind the very thing you are suggesting is already going on. When i scan all the subreddits for alcoholics/addicts and choose which to respond to I see it as an extension of what i do at meetings share my experience strength and hope and discuss topics related to recovery...You may be having the same experience i did a few months back and feel that there are too many posts from newcomers and not enough from people with longer sobriety. My answer to this was to start r/workingthe12steps. my hope was that it would become just as you described an online discussion meeting I am not that good at promoting but we do have some subscribers and you are certainly welcome to subscribe and post there and invite others. I started it but i don't want to be the only one posting there it's happening slowly i guess. You sound like you are looking for the same thing i am so it made me happy to tell you about this and invite you to join...There is also r/dinosaursinrecovery that you can join and it is made up of people with one year of sobriety or more..I hope to see you there.
Woow I'm stoked to have found this! Truly an much needed refresher for this traveling AA'er. Thank you mmiikkiitt and gafflebitters  for the other subreddit suggestions :  r/workingthe12steps  r/dinosaursinrecovery ..
