-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6gaqsx/vacation_meetings/

I think I just want to share my love of the AA fellowship. I'm on vacation and feeling uneasy about it being my first sober vacation to a very drink-friendly destination. After a pity party night I found a meeting this morning. I raised my hand and shared how I was feeling and these people total strangers helped me more than you can imagine. I left giving and receiving genuine hugs and I will see them tomorrow. It's amazing to go somewhere so far from home and be embraced so lovingly. And to hear the same message and such similar stories. We are all so similar. My prayers are with all of you especially those who are struggling right now. I don't know you personally but I love you all. 
----------immediate responses--------

&gt;I raised my hand and shared how I was feeling and these people total strangers helped me more than you can imagine. I left giving and receiving genuine hugs and I will see them tomorrow...NICE!  I have found myself at meetings while traveling too. .When I am uncomfortable - I usually feel re-grounded if I hit a meeting. ..Thanks for sharing on how to get into solutions when away from home. 
I love going to meetings when I'm out of town. It's always interesting to me how other groups operate so differently. ..On a similar note I moved halfway across the country about a year ago. I found that new meetings are fun on vacation but completely leaving my old meetings and having to find new ones in a new place was tough. I felt like a newcomer again although thanks to the steps and my old sponsor's advice (he had done something similar at one point) I got myself involved quickly in a home group and found a new sponsor. 
Thanks for the uplifting message
Truly amazing fellowship. ..I feel like I'm a member of some powerful secret society..... oh wait I am!..
I'm 48 days sober and have been to 47 meetings in places as widely different from Central London Glasgow Northampton my hometown Bedford and Nice in the South of France...The welcome is always the same warm and sincere. Even after this short time it feels like home..I love this fellowship too...God Bless You and remember if you don't pick up the first drink ...............Enjoy your holiday 
