-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6hk317/i_found_my_way_back/

Long story I wont do a drunk log or war stories..I drank from 15 to 30 never realizing there was a solution..I did geographics I made promises I tried everything and still could not stop. In those 15 yearsI had three bottoms at the time they  horrified me yet I still did not stop. At 31 I was introduced to AA and I immediately embraced the steps..My obsession was lifted within a couple of weeks of doing the first 3 steps. I did everything that was suggested got a sponsor worked the steps and stayed sober for about 14 years. Everything that was promised in the big book came true. My life was great God restored everything and then some..At about 12 years I stopped going to meetings being of service and guess what happened next..I went out..It lasted 12 years and in that time it was self will run riot and all character defects that had been managed through the steps came right back..I had something happen to me that I can only attribute to God.and found myself sitting in the parking lot of the fellowship. I did not make a conscious decision to come back..I knew that my life would be over soon at my hand most likely.so I walked in to the rooms once more..I got a sponsor the second day and we went through the first 164 pages in about 10 days..The obsession was lifted again..I am now 83 days sober and even though my life is a mess divorce after 36 years sale of a house and unemployment I have hope for the future..IT WORKS IF YOU WORK IT.I am now looking to sponsor some men in the rooms to fulfill the .the purpose. .If you are struggling with alcohol get a big book and read the DRs opinion and the chapter to the Agnostic. If you see your self.you are in the right place and you don't ever have to go back to the life of despair and self loathing..Get a sponsor and work the steps half measures availed us nothing Be fearless and thorough and practice rigorous honesty..Keep coming back it works..
----------immediate responses--------

Thanks for sharing your experience.  I drank from age 15 to age 29 and next month I am coming up on 7 years clean and sober.  Frankly I've been struggling.  I've had two real sponsees (who actually got started on the work) and both gave up at or before step 4.  Seeing stories of people in the rooms going into mental hospitals with nearly a decade makes me wonder.  Someone I was close with in my homegroup shot himself dead with 40 years of sobriety.  Even weird things in some of the literature like how in Dr. Bob and the Good Old Timers it talks on page 155 about AA splitting from the Oxford Group in part because Buchman "was regarded by some as being in sympathy with Hitler"; yet didn't AA take many of its ideas from the Oxford Group including the steps (based on the four absolutes)?  These things have been bothering me...Matthew 7:20 has been coming to mind.  I have a great sponsor who is one of the smartest people I know (he is a master inventor) and I really like his approach to recovery and the steps.  I worked with a different sponsor earlier in my recovery who said my disease could take any form; I ought to think of my disease as a CIA agent who spoke 12 different languages and was in the rooms with me at a meeting and would use any trick in the book to get me to go back out.  For some reason that really resonated with me.  I can relate to the feeling of having wrestled with a real physical entity (disease or addiction or whatever you want to call it).  One of my earliest sponsors put it to me very simply in his own very loveable fashion: he said "don't throw away your sobriety bro"...So myself being someone who is struggling my question to you is as honestly as possible "was it worth it?"  I love drink in all forms yet I also believe the easy roads in life lead nowhere...Thanks again for sharing.
Glad you're back on this side of things. 
Hey Phaser- I believe in being honest so please take what I say constructively and feel free to label as much as you want as bullshit..Have you talked to your sponsor about your feelings of doubt?.Lean on him for some guidance it sounds as though you trust the way he runs his program..You referenced Matthew 7:20 so I assume you rely on the other big book as well Good!.Spiritual warfare takes many shapes and forms doubt is one of them. That CIA agent is actually in my mind Satan casting doubt..For me he comes as a whisper barely audible but persistent eroding my strength of belief..Persistence in all I doand turning my life over to God dailysometimes hourly is the way I deal with doubt..Who cares what happened to the oxford group?.Does that really affect you today? Really?.Sponsees come and go don't give up on the one you haven't met because of the one who didn't stick..I assume you mean was going out worth it?.Absolutly not I am sitting here in an empty house which is sold getting a divorce after 36 years and I am unemployed and 58..ALL the direct result of untreated Alcoholism..But and this is big I have tremendous hope for the future..I did the steps as quickly as I couldread the first 164 pages of the big book in about a week. I started making my amends to those closetes to me as soon as I  could and the relief I felt was awesome. I am sad very sad about the past but I am not burdened by it anymore..Remember Faith without works is dead..Hope you are doing good reach out anytime ok?.I personally believe that doubt is spiritual warfare waged by 
Great testimony.  Thank you for sharing your experience.  You helped me a lot tonight.
