-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6hwt20/drinking_daily_for_the_past_few_months_i_need_help/

I've been drinking daily for the past few months now. My line of work forces me to deal with the worst aspects of human behaviour people can be really shitty to each other and I'm at the coal face daily. ..I started using alcohol as stress relief but I cannot just have a drink or two and leave it. I have to drink at least half to 3/4 of a bottle of whiskey and now it's becoming a bottle a day. ..I find myself hiding alcohol from my wife drinking it out of coffee cups also non transparent water bottles.  I'm slurring my speech forgetting things missing important dates. ..I'm so scared.  I went to an AA meeting and I literally freaked out. I convinced myself I didn't really have a problem to the degree others were struggling and I was simply being a perfectionist so to speak but I realise now I've got a massive problem...I need your help reddit.  Those of you who have been here before what do I do? .
----------immediate responses--------

I was scared too. I was honest with a doctor about how much I was drinking. Medication made withdrawal easier and safer. Then I got lots of support. AA is for anyone who has a desire to stop drinking. Look for the ways you are similar to others rather than differences. Alcoholism is progressive and your body has crossed that line into addiction. Withdrawal is nothing to mess with so see your family physician for guidance. I think being honest with your wife might be a good idea also. She already knows something is amiss and may be relieved to hear the truth. ..There is help and hope but I couldn't stay sober without support from others. Having a therapist was helpful too. ..Stay in touch. Feel free to ask any questions you have. Another supportive subreddit is /r/stopdrinking. 
I have been exactly there...Used to hide alcohol in water bottles from my wife.  I'd aim to secretly get as drunk as I could to forget stress and anxiety all the while pretending to be sober to not get "caught."..Eventually it got so bad my body hurt I was so ashamed I was terrified of not drinking but terrified of drinking.  Life was miserable...Went to AA.  Hated it.  People sucked seemed like losers.  Stopped going...Drank more.  Cycle continued.  Misery got so bad I said fuck it I'll do what those AA people say.  I got a sponsor and he worked the steps with me...Life is immeasurably better now.  Get a sponsor.  Are you scared?  Good.  We all were.  Its terrifying but it beats the alternative.  Are you too scared to hide booze from your wife?  Miss important dates?  You should be a lot less scared of approaching someone in AA who will love you and understand all your issues not because they have a degree or a PhD or whatever but because they have been EXACTLY where you are...Also you should see a real MD doctor physician too for detox.  Doctors help get you sober AA helps keep you that way...Good luck write me any time for anything.
Best thing I did was stop comparing myself to others in AA. you are there for yourself focus on that and stay strong. 
go to a meeting ask for a sponsor and to be taken through the steps immediately. it is the only way to be relieved of the mental obsession and desire to drink. meetings today are all about war stories which is why people compare themselves instead of identify. be happy that you caught the problem now than when you're in the hospital with liver failure. just because it hasn't happened to you doesn't mean it can't. take the steps immediately. good luck. 
If you're drinking a bottle of whiskey a day believe me your wife already knows.  I was the stress drinker thought I could control it and 15 years later still couldn't.  I sought detox in a hospital and sought out AA and a counselor immediately upon leaving.  I left my alcoholic wife and am married to a wonderful sober woman and we share our lives completely.  AA helps millions of people around the world every day deal with the same feelings thoughts and behaviors you have.  AA has your back if you can get in the door.
Hey man thanks for sharing with us and trusting us. I would recommend going back to the meeting and when they ask if there are any newcomers introduce yourself. You don't have to call yourself an alcoholic you can just say "desire to stop drinking". Stick around for a little bit after the meeting. People will come up to you and want to talk. They may give you their phone number and encourage you to call them. You should call them get a cup of coffee with them grab a bit to eat whatever. Just get to know some of them. That's the only way you'll figure out whether or not you belong in a meeting is if you relate to what these other people are saying about themselves...Best of luck!
You've actually made a huge step in recognizing you have a problem.  Addiction will protect itself and tell you that you don't have a problem.
Here's a talk on surrender.  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zT34RtGFAAA
