-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6j73mn/fourth_step_with_sponsee/

I'm sponsoring a young man who I'd struggling with his step work. He says his willingness comes and goes and I figure that is pretty honest of him. His resentment inventory is pretty thin there's not much there and once I suggested he add himself to the list if he's exhausted his past it turned into an exercise in self-loathing...He's pretty young. 27. Is it possible that he just doesn't have many resentments? This doesn't seem possible to me mine went on and on for a life time my resentments burn in me. This guy is so inwardly harsh to himself though that I don't understand how to help him be rigidly honest.
----------immediate responses--------

if he's not willing to do the work then find someone else who is don't waste your time. ask him to pray for the clarity honesty and open-mindedness. to meditate on his resentments... for like a week. if nothing then i guess work with what he has. but if he's not willing to do the work then he's not willing to stay sober. and it's not worth wasting your time when there are people dying to get this thing. 
This is interesting for me to read because I am struggling myself with this step. I am completely committed to AA and working the steps but I just don't get this. ..I drank because I'm an alcoholic. I loved the way it made me feel until I didn't love the way it made me feel. I was a happy drunk. It helped me with social anxiety - I'd happily talk to a cardboard box if I was drinking. ..My family's not perfect and sure I have resentments but nothing that (I feel) made me pick up a drink. I play nice with others and had a relatively normal functional life. But I drank too much. ..The increasing negative consequences --nothing legal or financial mostly guilt and shame over hiding my pre- and post-gaming experiencing frequent blackouts (where nothing remarkable happened thank God) being so hungover and anxious that I had to call in sick etc. and anxiety --led me to AA where I learned about the obsession of mind and allergy. ..So here I am. But now I apparently have to come up with pages of resentments that led me to drink and I honestly feel it didn't work that way for me. ..Anyway sorry for the long post but I'm interested to see the responses you get. My sponsor and I are not technically starting step work until 90 days (per her but I've been doing tons of reading and have workbooks that I'm working in) so I hope to learn something! 
I'm 27 and just completed steps four and five so take this with a grain of salt. My sponsor uses the step 4 sheets from this website http://first164.blogspot.co.uk/p/link-to.html?m=1. I found my resentment list was pretty light when I started and some of the other parts got larger and helped me find more resentments. One thing I did was to go through the contacts on my phone and Facebook friends to start thinking about people I wouldn't naturally have thought about. Still it was the shortest of all lists so he could be like me and only have a few big ones. I know I will do the steps again next year( one day at a time) so maybe I will unearth more I couldn't see this time around. ..One other thing that he maybe doing which I did was "forgiving" small stuff without putting it on the list. The guy that got me in trouble this onetime didn't seem like a big thing when I first started because it wasn't something I ever thought about until doing this and I forgave him years ago so what do I do. ..I also can understand the willingness coming and going  chances are he means motivation more then willingness which are two different things. He is willing but taking the actions can be difficult to find the motivation. ..Best advice I had around this is that it's a circle serenity to complacency to pain to action. He is probably sitting in complacency and pain when the pain gets hard enough he will take action. Ask him where he is in this circle and see what he says. ..Hope this was helpful from a 27 year old who sounds a lot like this guy. 
You could listen to Joe and Charlie together 
@colum89: great post I couldn't have said it better myself. Thank you for sharing. ..I would like to add in my experience it's always been best for me to meditate prior to doing step work especially list making in step 4. I ask God to reveal what he would have me see writing down without afterthought whatever comes to mind no matter how small or insignificant (perceived). ..When I first approached step 4 and I was working on my "grudge list" or resentments I too found my list a bit light. Was it because I had forgiven and moved on from all of these slights (or perceived slights) and harm endured by others? Perhaps in part. I certainly was toting around some pretty heavy resentments ya know the glaring ones- family ex-girlfriends middle school bully past and present coworkers and supervisors and a few institutions (still working on my resentment towards NC Dept of Corrections   aka Dept of Public Safety). These were easy to list. But eventually under the guidance of my sponsor I had to move on to the next list. When I finally took my 5th step I ended up mentally stumbling upon other resentments as I shared my inventory with my sponsor. Free style so to speak. ..All in all the need for perfection is a common defect of character for many of us alcoholics. I can worry myself into  paralyzation by obsessing over remembering every little resentment. Therefore I must trust my HP in revealing to me what needs to go on paper or I'd never get anywhere! This relationship is a work in progress but the trust deepens with each night my head hits the pillow sober and each morning I wake up clear headed with a clear conscience as well as with each prayer. As long as I am rigorously honest as I work through the steps everything will work out like it is supposed to. THAT is perhaps the greatest gift I have received from AA: The personal belief that everything happens exactly as it is supposed to.....And of course there is no graduation from AA so I'll get another opportunity to work the steps again and again (a day at a time). Furthermore my sponsor welcomes an impromptu call should a resentment reveal itself outside our designated 5th step event. This is also similar in part  how our sponsor/sponsee family works the 10th step (spot check inventory). .."Don't drink don't think and go to a meeting."..                                                            -Old Timer.                                                         Greensboro NC     ..These ideas are but my humble opinions and come from my own personal experiences. I am an alcoholic in recovery. I am imperfect and flawed. Thank you for letting me share.  
You can't force someone to find resentments that he says he doesn't have. A thorough fourth step should also include our personal positive characteristics. It sounds like he should focus on being kinder to himself. ..I wouldn't impose what my experience doing the steps onto a sponsee. Let him unfold as he is able to at this time. Not having a long list of resentments doesn't mean he is not being honest. Sounds like this guy needs encouragement and not criticism or questioning his honestly.
Why is it important to you that he has more resentments?
I just started on my 4th step too I actually don't have a lot of resentments myself. I was told to add my family to the list even though I don't resent them either. Your sponsee sounds like he might suffer from low self esteem and depression. A lot of people drink to cover up stuff like that.
There a lifetime to do other 4th steps.  A positive inventory of ourselves is just as important as bashing oneself.  You'll both get through it.  He can learn from this run through and always be working towards another.
