-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6k60dl/a_dilemma/

Hey everyone throwaway for professional reasons...So I'm a medical professional. I'm under monitoring for work having come clean about my alcoholism. I never really took my program seriously (no step work no sponsor basically a 2.5 year dry drunk). I recently had a relapse went on a bender called in multiple days...Part of my program is random urine drug screening. I don't do drugs but it can detect booze for a few days after use. I've been chugging water think it's out of my system and been lucky with not being selected to pee...I have a few people I have to convince that all is well and that I'm good. I feel like I can do this. My concern is that when I really dedicate myself to my program and get to telling all the people how I've wronged them I'm afraid that if I tell people this I could potentially lose my license or other professional consequences. I want to make appropriate amends but I'm afraid that if I do I could lose my livelihood. I LOVE my job and am not sure what I would do without it...TL:DR. Want to be honest but afraid of losing my livelihood if I am...What should I do????..Thanks everyone...
----------immediate responses--------

Get a sponsor and a good sponsor will explain that step 9 where we make our amends says "..except when to do so would injure them or others". Others includes ourselves. So for example when I worked in a pharmacy and stole narcotics I don't call the company and say "I stole narcotics from you what can I do to amend this?" As that would cause direct injury to me and I would lose my license as well. So amends were made indirectly in my case. But it's all case by case and as I said a sponsor will guide you...Step 9 isn't as daunting as it may appear now and it's also step 9 for a reason you have to work 1-8 first before you get there. When you do you'll be ready for it. ..My suggestion would be to dive into the program and follow the suggestions working the steps with a sponsor being a big one. Dry is no way to live my friend. I didn't get sober to be miserable and when we do the work we're promised a life beyond our wildest dreams. I wish I could honestly describe to you what that's like but the only way for someone to truly understand is to reach that life through their own hard work and dedication. You can do this I believe in you and so does God. I'll keep you in my prayers!
A good sponsor will not intstruct you to make amends if they would ruin your livelihood and ultimately your life.  No sponsor that is good will tell you to make amends that will lead you to ruin your life and you will end up drinking...Another thing to put your mind at ease is hat you have eight steps before you make amends. You will carefully review these amends on paper with prudence and your sponsor will help you.  Just focus on stayin sober. 
A therapist was a primary support for information and guidance. a
Good for you for coming clean.   I also didn't do the step work for the first 2-3 years.  Once I finally did them I lost the desire to drink.  And my life and moods improved dramatically...Don't get ahead of yourself.  You don't have to make any amends today so throw your fears out to the universe and focus on today....Everything will be fine.  Just take it a day at a time.  And follow the program.
A friend of mine was a Supervising RN and while drinking she'd stolen any pills that she could take without being detected and some other poor choices. When she came to the point where she felt impelled to contact her former bosses and clean that up she did with a lot of fear about her license. ..In listening to her at that time I had the feeling that her bosses really didn't want to know any more than the general outline that she had been dishonest and not performed as the employee they had deserved. That was all they wanted to hear and she felt ok with it ..The amends are to set the past as straight as is possible not about preventing you from making a living or suffering for years in sobriety for what you may have done drinking. People count on you and when in your right mind you can perform for them and contribute to their health. If everyone stands to lose where is the gain?
If i was your sponsor I would smile and tell you "one day at a time". I do find it amusing when a new person gets sober and in all seriousness asks:.. " what about my daughter's wedding? will i get to drink at that?".." how old is your daughter?".." she'll be three in september".." I don't think you have to worry about that right now why don't you deal with today's stuff?"  :)..Certainly talk over your concerns with your sponsor but if you don't have one yet i would suggest you focus on that instead...And yes there is a part in the instructions on making amends that suggests we make amends wisely and if you were to sacrifice your job and the family that was depending on you it would be a very high price to pay to make that amends and that should not be taken lightly but when the time comes we ask our higher power to guide us to do the right thing...Read everything you can in the book about amends and ask people. Dr. bob was moved  by the spirit and went around and made amends to everybody in his town with a hangover i believe newly sober anyways and said he did not believe he would have stayed sober if he did not do it but every case is different i think....
