-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6kkifj/so_it_happened/

I've been going strong with no alcohol for a couple months now. Thought I could stop. But I came into a lot of negative things in my life and i relapsed. This is my first time relapsing and I feel like I'm never gonna be able to quit. All this shit in my life is fucking awful but liquor makes it all dissipate and vanish. ..I know I need to stay strong but I forgot how good this feels and I feel like I'll never be able to get ahold of my life. It's a conflicting feeling. I don't want to be this person but it's too easy to get a bottle from the store on my way home from work and finish it by the end of the night. ..As I'm writing this I'm polishing of a handle of Jameson and IPA. I know it's tacky to ask the people of Reddit for help but I'm looking for help with coping and also methods of quitting and staying off alcohol. ..PLEASE HELP 
----------immediate responses--------

i used the prescription drug antabuse to give me strength when I couldn't do it on my own. made quiting easy. maybe do some google-fu / ask a doctor. over 3 years for me. 
Eventually it will stop working. Eventually the reason you escape for the bottle won't be there anymore. Drinking is like lighting yourself on fire. You and I both know you'll burn everything you've built up in sobriety. 
I don't believe in god. I don't have a "higher power" to help guide me through life. At the end of the day it's me myself and I making that decision to drink or not to. I make my own decisions which adds a level of difficulty to sobriety 
For me it was rock bottom. I was a shell of myself. Spiritually empty physically sick and mentally unstable. I was done. I thought I drank to help my problems then realized drinking drugging was my problem. I slowly recovered first my body then my mind and finally my spirit. I realized my higher power was there with me. Life is far from perfect but I am ok 75% of the time. 25% of the time I feel sad lonely ugly etc. but I have meeting family and friends. I have never laughed so hard as I do in an AA meeting. I've also never wept so much but it's all good. I hope maybe this sheds some light on my experience if that makes sense. 
A court ke kof maths isn't enough time to reap full benefits .. try again and last longer you'll hopefully get a glimpse of how good it gets. Beyond anything you've experienced I know this was true for me although I couldn't understand it
Life's problems will always be coming at us. Coping with them with alcohol will only take you down . I would sober up and deal with life .The more hell you go through the easier life gets. Because we ARE LEARNING !!!!   What are  you learning when you get drunk every time a rough road comes along ? Learning how to get drunk and run from the  problem.
I couldn't stay sober without lots of help. A therapist treatment and AA did the trick. 
Knowing the value of your decision to stop is worthwhile so some understanding of the seriousness of your condition is possible...if you can admit that to yourself. Most alcoholics I've met (including myself) needed to retake that class for years before they gave up and sought effective help...Doesn't have to go that way for you. If you can admit defeat now you can save yourself some misery.
