-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6kkwj0/forgiveness/

Long story short. I (30m) have been in a relationship with my now wife (30f) for 6 years married for 4. We have 2 children. I have 3 easy rules in our relationship; no cheating no drugs and no men in our home that I have not met while I'm gone. Without getting into too many details she has broken 2 of those rules. She has done drugs while I was away and behind my back while I was with there. She has also invited dudes into our house (her friends "friends") while I was gone. Although she hasn't "cheated" on me in the traditional sense. The last time I was gone she invited her friend (f) to come over who brought her friend (m) who I have never met to our house. She continued to drink and do drugs until she was blacked out. I just found out that she got naked around 6 in the morning because she finally asked her friend (f). Her friend (f) said nothing happened but she also said she went to bed early. She would only get naked for one reason she is not the type of person to randomly get naked because she didn't want to wear clothes. She doesn't remember what happened that night and her "friends" aren't going to tell me. Should I chalk this up to strike 3? Or should I believe what her friend told her? Is getting naked while married  in front of another dude considered cheating? I know what her intentions were. I'm struggling to understand everything. My wife has entered a program because she and I know she has a substance abuse problem. She currently has 50 days sober and is working on herself. I don't know if I can forgive what has been done.
----------immediate responses--------

IMO it is all about your trust for her. What will it take to rebuild trust? Is it even possible? Without trust there is no relationship. Again my opinion.
this belongs in /r/Alanon. maybe you will get more answers there. good luck. 
A therapist and Alanon meetings is your best option. 
If you have 3 rules and she breaks 1 and finds out she can get away with it she's going to break the other 2 sooner or later.  The only reason the rules exist is because those are 3 things she's at risk of doing and if she doesn't have herself under control and is running around naked in front of strange guys it's only a matter of time...Also I've done a LOT of drugs and 99% of the time when I've claimed to have blacked out I knew damn well what I did but didn't want to accept responsibility for it.  The other 1% of the time I already knew what I was going to do before I got wasted and even then I had a general memory of whether or not I did it.
Are you sober as well?
This has less to do with alcoholism and more to do with a shitty partner. I'd be planning an exit. 
