-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6ljj33/dry_drunk/

The Twelve Steps were right from the very start intended to start a new religion to give the followers "vital spiritual experiences" and to turn the followers into religious fanatics   "religiomaniacs". Bill Wilson believed that religious fanaticism was the only answer for alcoholism. Bill often misquoted "The only radical remedy for dipsomania is religiomania" (Bill attributed that quote to Carl Jung but Jung never said it. It came from page 263 of William James' book "The Varieties of Religious Experience".)..But what if you disagree with that message? What if you would prefer to keep the religious beliefs you already have? What if you choose to not believe in the Twelve Steps and since they are supposedly only a suggestion you freely choose to not do the "suggestions"? What if you just want to quit drinking without becoming a religious convert?..Well you can still join A.A. because the only official requirement for membership is a desire to stop drinking but you won't really be a full-fledged member. The hard-core true believers have a deprecating name for such members: "One-steppers". People who only practice the first step admitting that they have lost control of their drinking. People who want to quit drinking and regain control of their lives but without all of the neurotic wallowing in guilt and grovelling before God that the other eleven steps entail. The true believers will tell you that you can't do that: you have to practice all twelve steps all of the time or you will relapse...When people do quit without the Twelve Steps and without even attending A.A. meetings the A.A. true believers will say that those people are not really "in recovery"; they are only "abstaining." What's the difference? Some counselors have lists of such differences like:...The A.A. true believers don't even ask about such differences they just automatically proclaim that anyone who doesn't drink and who also doesn't attend A.A. meetings is "only abstaining" while someone who is attending A.A. meetings and "doing the Steps" is of course "in recovery" whether they are actually working on any other issues or not...And the dogmatic believers will proclaim that the "abstainer" is not really enjoying a period of "sobriety" he is "only dry". To accomplish this twist in logic they bombastically redefine the word "sobriety" as:..SOBRIETY: A special state of Grace gained by working the Steps and maintaining absolute abstinence. It is characterized by feelings of Serenity and Gratitude. It is a state of living according to God's will not one's own. It is sanity...Even the word "sanity" is redefined there as Frank Buchman's sin-free "surrendered-to-God" (or surrendered-to-Frank) state of living   spending one's life "doing the will of God" as defined by the cult rather than "doing one's own will."..Likewise the true believers will say that the "abstainer" is a "dry drunk." "Dry drunk" is yet another imaginary disease invented by Alcoholics Anonymous. The term originally referred to a rather rare condition that some people have during the first months of recovery from alcohol abuse   they stumble around in an uncoordinated manner as if they are drunk even though they are 100% sober. But A.A. has turned it into a slur which is supposed to mean that someone is thinking and acting like a drunk man displaying all of the objectionable characteristics of an obnoxious drunk even though he is sober. And supposedly all sober men who won't do the Twelve Steps will suffer from that condition and will also become bitterly unhappy as well.....If an addict drops out of the Twelve Step system but remains totally abstinate from chemicals he is said to be a "dry drunk." He is not sober because sobriety requires the ongoing practice of Twelve Stepping. Some also refer to the state of being a dry drunk as "white knuckle sobriety" and believe that such a person is a veritable walking time bomb ready to descend with no warning precipitously into orgies of drunken oblivion unless he returns to practicing Twelve Stepdom..The Useful Lie by William L. Playfair M.D...On the other hand Paul Roasberry wrote in his essay The Cult Called A.A.:..Of course all cults have this in common: they reject and label as untouchables any who do not embrace their particular version of "Truth." To dyed-in-the-wool communists non-believers are "bootlickers of the capitalists" or "counter-revolutionary hooligans." To the born again fundamentalist Christian non-believers are "agents of Satan." To Moslems Christians are "devils" and to Nazis Jews are "swine." To the Alcoholics Anonymous membership anyone who stops drinking without chanting the mantras of cult founder Bill W. are "dry drunks" pure and simple. You don't even need to know anything more about the self-quitters   the fact that they quit drinking without A.A. makes them dry drunks a priori..The Cult Called A.A. Paul Roasberry..And unfortunately 12-Step true believers seem very reluctant to do a reality check there and compare their theories to actual results: If the A.A. member relapses while the so-called "abstainer" or "dry drunk" doesn't the A.A. fanatics will just blame their fellow A.A. member for "defects of character" and "constitutional incapability to be honest with himself" and for not practicing the Twelve Steps properly   for not "working a strong program" and perhaps for "holding something back in the Fifth Step"   while they simply ignore the nonmember abstainer or proclaim that "He'll still relapse it's just a matter of time." Under no conditions will the A.A. fanatics question the effectiveness of the A.A. Twelve Step program for actually quitting drinking and staying quit...
----------immediate responses--------

Not sure if I accidentally did this one twice
Rule 1: don't drink.Rules 2-61: help other folks practice rule 1.Rule 62: don't take yourself so dang seriously :)
No need to be so bitter. Try something other than AA that you like a whole lot. If you live in a State that has an open SOS meeting for example drive over to it and check it out. And then drive back.
Although some of these "opinions" may be true of some people in AA none of what you have said here is actual AA. Not. One. Single. Word. 
Who cares man it works. 
Well thought out interesting.   AA meetings keep me sober so I guess it's working for me.
No need to grind this axe. If you're able to stop drinking without AA then do it. But don't begrudge us for the solution we need and pass on to those who would otherwise perish. Live and let live.
This has not been my experience with AA. 
Go read the yellow papers. 
I've decided to accept that the OP's post is unacceptable to me.  
If you don't agree with AA don't attend the meetings. It's pretty simple. Good luck and have a great day!
AA works for a lot of people...Other methods work for a lot of people too...Stop overthinking it.   There are more important causes out there.
I think you've had a bit of a bad experience  sometimes people don't practice what is read in "working with others" correctly...However your bad experience could also be of your own making...I think the term "dry drunk" just like the term "Alcoholic" should be self diagnosed and most times this is how it's used.  And there's a solution for it too....&gt; Even the word "sanity" is redefined there as Frank Buchman's sin-free "surrendered-to-God" (or surrendered-to-Frank) state of living   spending one's life "doing the will of God" as defined by the cult rather than "doing one's own will."..Frank Buchman was a religious leader who started the Oxford Group so this wouldn't be out of place...It is a interesting concept that "Sanity" is surrendering to God where did you read this?.
Oh wow. The anger and resentment you have for AA...I am sorry you are ill..I hope you get well one day.
