-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6mylp5/im_going_to_get_so_much_better_here_d_and_part_of/

Has anyone else read the book easy way to quit/control drinking by Allen Carr? Apparently it's the same book. I will say I haven't quite finished it yet but it works so long as you agree with him; his reasoning or can come up with your own reasoning..I don't know why he bashes AA in the book and I don't know why so many AA members talk about alcohol like it's something to miss out on... nobody's perfect. The key is to understand why you started drinking in excess. In the AA book I believe it's the main founders story Bill had his quitting revelation when a 'friend' suggested that he come up with his own solution to what he thinks of God to be..Don't quote me on that. My point is I quit smoking with meditation hypnosis and by replacing my addiction with something else (preferably positive/relaxing/fun or at least non destructive). I quit smoking so I could sing. And I'm healing quite nicely for 6 months now almost there. .I'm using all the same techniques for quitting drinking but if I haven't mentioned it yet there's good news it's so much easier! (Than quitting smoking.).Anyways good book good analogies in it for good tools to quit oh here's a kicker?!.How do you all deal with it in media? It's Everywhere! I can deal with signs... but movies radio songs... that's where the hypnosis comes in then I got an idea. My wife said brad pitt quit drinking. So I wondered who else and oh my god; john goodman samuel l jackson steven king?! Stevie ray vaughan; Besides whom i knew James Hetfield. These guys are my heroes! They act in movies and will continue to do so holding a glass of I don't know apple cider pretending it's whiskey. Or sing us songs about whiskey in a jar... or oh my goodness I've made the switch to country music and it's in like at least a third of the songs. .But if these celebrities can do it and remain strong so can I. I don't give a crap if they relapse. Everyone does... I did for years. 10 years I've been trying to quit smoking. Done. And I've only seriously tried to quit drinking once with zero intentions of ever drinking again. Last time I just thought I could cut back and it would be fine that was over 10 years ago... hey by the way did you know that most adults report a relapse within a decade or more. Most... if they can't do it your talking about millions of people then what makes me think I'm any different or stronger?.Take care fellas! .One more thing I forgot to add as a Strong tool to quit. I even did it to quit smoking. Drink anything else(safe beverage wise) and pretend your getting the same amount of relief from it. It actually works... and then after awhile you won't miss drinking. I like tea coconut water apple juice... I'm working out now so milk has a great amount of protein :D.Some hobby suggestions to help with the stress: play guitar (learning any new instrument helps immensely with health-memory mostly) harmonica (So easy to learn) and working out helps so much. Run if that's your thing (I don't) but the best part about working out is I'm giving myself 4 or more days rest and now that I'm over 30 I won't find much trouble gaining weight. Lol! Also I don't feel the same 'burn' as back when I did as a teenager. If you look up how to shock your muscles (not electrically...) to continue to make gains then make serious diet changes... I'm having fun just learning about all this great stuff I don't have time to drink! And that's another thing! Keep busy! You don't have to be a workaholic just find things you enjoy. I've tried thousands of hobbies and wasted thousands of dollars before I found stuff I liked. I also have the best excuse ever to refuse a beer now... no thanks I don't want to miss my gains. My goal is to look like chris evans from captain America and now that I've been unloading a full semi load a day average of 20000 pounds (thank god that's over) this ^ doesn't seem so hard. 
----------immediate responses--------

