-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6owe5a/has_any_recovered_alcoholic_successfully_smoked/

I know this is a controversial question but heres the truth. Im 23 years old and im 2 and a half years sober. Ive worked through the steps multiple times. Ive had my spiritual experience and am doing my best to live life on a spiritual basis. Lately i have considered smoking weed. Im not saying im going to do it i just want to know if anyone has ever recovered from alcohol and decided smoke some weed without realapsing. I personally dont see anything wrong with it. My main concern is that i dont want to drink. Ive lost the obsession to drink and i never want it back. My life is good tofay becuase of aa and the steps. Im asking the question out if curiosity and also becuase bill wilson did lsd and to my knowledge he did not go back to drinkig
----------immediate responses--------

I have ive smoked twice since I got sober over two years ago. I have very little desire to drink but I had a desire to smoke those times and I chose to do it. Both times I really did not enjoy it my brain does not like thc anymore. I felt guilty after smoking weed to so I kinda figured that if I felt that badly after smoking I would feel a million times worse after drinking. I'd say its kind of a slippery slope I think the reason it didn't make me relapse was because all I could think about was how paranoid and anxious I felt from the weed. idk I don't think I'm making much sense. Bottom line just be careful if you think it could drive you to drink again then don't bother its not worth it. Good luck dude
Personally I don't really hate the drinking as much as what it does to my life. When drinking I was time money food energy my connection in my relationships isn't as good and I hide from people who I am afraid will judge me. I have a similar experience when smoking weed.
LSD was used as a treatment aid.  If you're looking to use marijuana therapeutically on occasion with clearly defined goals it's not bad...If you're looking for a new drug that you can abuse because you think there's nothing wrong with it you're probably taking your life in the wrong direction.
I tried it too. I never liked pot when I still drank but the first year and a half of my sobriety I smoked it a lot. I hardly thought about alcohol again. Why drink when you can smoke weed right? Until I started smoking every day and I started getting really irritable and having small panic attacks. Then one time I had a major panic attack while smoking and my mind went straight to alcohol to numb things down. I didn't drink but my mind immediately thought of alcohol as a solution...As an alcoholic I think I'm prone to what I call "Mental Alchemy". Like if I can just take this in combination with that with a little bit of this I can take on the world! And once I think I've found it I dive into it head on. I tried it with almost every combination of booze and I later tried it with cannabis too. I think that's part of the spiritual malady with 'spirit' being according to the thesaurus: The principle of conscious life. That's part of my problem not being able to face life in a conscious way and always considering other things to numb or change my perception of reality. I would stay away from it if I were you.
I've seen people last 3 years + before they get honest or drink again. With a couple of exceptions that lasted longer before drinking again. Not a longterm solution for problem-free loadiness. ..It's a demonstration of different types of lingering reservations indicating a problem of one type or another.
i did a year of marijuana maintenance before I came to AA.  worst year of my life.  I used to go to bed chanting I want to die every night.  quitting weed was really hard.  I could not do it on my own.  ..from 22 to 24 I was an alcholic trying not drink by smoking weed.  I gained 40 pounds.  I put a permanent dent in my moms couch from lying on it all day...I had to smoke weed just to feel normal.  if I did not I was so cranky.  I never laughed like I used to.  I was a recluse.  I was full of anxiety about what people thought about me...I am sure some people do it but it is not a life I ever want to return to.  I am in chronic pain and I think it may be better than pain medication but I just cannot ever imagine going back to that life...having said all that.  I do think weed saved my life.  it kept me from drinking for a year.  thankfully I found something better.  I found AA.  The one thing I truly loved about weed was anyone who smoked was instantly my friend.  The same is true with AA.  ..now I am 36 married own a nice home with pool got a master degree.  became a teacher and then left to be a business man.  I have travelled the world.  I live in Thailand for part of the year.  I can take a few months off whenever I want.  more than anything I love seeing other people get sober.  
I guess after 2.5 years of abstinence from alcohol the main question is why you want to try it. What are the intentions? Only you can answer that question for yourself. Your AA tools can help answer it and understand where it's coming from. .For me if my intent is to use a substance only for mind altering purposes I'd consider that a relapse for myself. Other people may think differently and that's fine. I just know from experience what that would mean to me. 
The desire to be intoxicated will not be conquered by getting intoxicated. Sort your head out.
