-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6p316p/has_anyone_else_struggled_with_drinking_for_a/

TLDR: Has anyone else struggled with drinking for a very short amount of time such as few months? Is that alcholism? ...I feel weird and uncomfortable calling myself an Alcholic because I feel like I am minimizing other people's addiction. I hadn't drank for that long I used to drink socially every weekend when i was 18 and then after that I drank few times a year at most. .Then in early Spring my old friend killed themselves which ofcourse was devestating. Naturally I drank after the wake. Then I drank after the funeral. Then I drank everyday for a month. It took me another 2 months to quit as I would start shaking or having panic attacks when I didn't drink and would crack on the 2nd day of trying not to drink. ..It has been 2 months since I drank I dont feel comfortable going to bars with friends because I am afraid I wont be able to control myself since I still get an occasional overwhelming urge. I dont know much about alcoholism.... ..The other day my partner told me he isnt comfortable with me ever drinking again he is completely straight edge himself and i got really defensive. The idea of someone telling me to never drink again got me itching that i almost went and bought liquor but the store thank god was closed. :( ..
----------immediate responses--------

It's not how much we drink or for how long it's what it does to us. When we can control our drinking we're good. When it controls us we are heading for trouble. Here's some ways to figure out where you stand with alcohol:http://www.alcoholism-addiction-psychology.com/know-im-alcoholic/. Every alcoholic starts out small. Most of us weren't lucky enough to recognize it or admit it before it progressed and wrecked our lives and burned other people. It's a path you don't want to stay on.
Don't worry about minimizing anyone's addiction if you're an alcoholic like me then we have the same thing. Whether you're 18 years old or 99 years old whether you drank beer or hard liquor. The problem is being able to recognize it early enough so you don't have to go down that progressive road. All I do know is that if you are an alcoholic you won't be able to go back to social drinking. Your straight edge partner is probably worried you will lose control again and if your first instinct is to go and buy alcohol in a sort of "I'll show you" defensive manner then that sounds like a red flag to me. Same goes for the overwhelming urges you mentioned. But I'm not you and it's really something you need to analyze for yourself. You could try going to an AA meeting and see if you identify with the people there? 
Shaking and panic attacks are withdrawal symptoms and indicate addiction to alcohol. We don't really know how our drinking affects those who love us. Your partner sounds scared to death you are going to drink again. Have you ever asked what it was like for them when you were drinking? I learned to listen and not be defensive. I owed it to those who cared about me because I knew I hurt them even though I didn't remember much of it. I was transparent and did whatever I could so they weren't scared...Reading the book *Under the Influence* by Ketchum and Milam helped me understand and accept my alcoholism. From what you report I predict that if you start drinking again your problems will increase. Learning about alcoholism was very helpful. 
One guy in my group drank for 8 months before getting sober. Made good use of his sobriety published a well-received book and became an English professor. Married a sober lady was happy...He figured with all that going for him he had the right to have a drinkie after 30 years. Lost it all and to my knowledge hasn't made it back in 15 years though he wants it and tries hard...On the plus side his ex is still sober and doing well.
My partner knew I was an alcoholic about 10 years before I came to accept it. She also knew when I was about to have a drink about a day or too before I found myself drinking again after swearing of it for months. ..It's natural to drink after a wake when a good friend dies. It's not natural to then go on to drink everyday for a month. It's not natural to not drink because you are afraid that once you start you won't be able to control yourself. It's not natural to get an overwhelming urge to carry on and on and on until you pass out after you have just one drink - that's alcoholism.
I recommend reading the Big Book or at least the chapter called More About Alcoholism. Here is an excerpt:.. If anyone who is showing inability to control his drinking can do the right- about-face and drink like a gentleman our hats are off to him. Heaven knows we have tried hard enough and long enough to drink like other people!.Here are some of the methods we have tried: Drink- ing beer only limiting the number of drinks never drinking alone never drinking in the morning drink- ing only at home never having it in the house never drinking during business hours drinking only at parties switching from scotch to brandy drinking only natural wines agreeing to resign if ever drunk on the job taking a trip not taking a trip swearing off forever (with and without a solemn oath) taking more physical exercise reading inspirational books going to health farms and sanitariums accepting voluntary commitment to asylums we could increase the list ad infinitum..We do not like to pronounce any individual as alco- holic but you can quickly diagnose yourself. Step over to the nearest barroom and try some controlled drinking. Try to drink and stop abruptly. Try it more than once. It will not take long for you to de- cide if you are honest with yourself about it. It may be worth a bad case of jitters if you get a full knowledge of your condition...http://www.aa.org/pages/en_US/alcoholics-anonymous
I am also falling down the slope . I passed out on a bus bench after puking all over my shoes . Im happy I woke up again fully clothed . And didn't die . Ive never puked from drinking .... 
