-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6p9wfo/your_personal_conception_of_god/

If people don't mind would you talk to me about your conception if god. I would probably call myself agnostic and despite the fact that the big book describes AA as a spiritual program I still get hung up on the use of the word God. And the chapter to agnostics I almost felt it was condescending (although maybe I'm being overly sensitive). ..I'm just struggling to find a conception of God that I can actually buy into...If anyone has any thoughts or advice on the topic I would love and appreciate hearing about them...Thanks!
----------immediate responses--------

Hey! Spirituality doesn't necessarily mean God or religion. See if this makes sense to you:http://www.alcoholism-addiction-psychology.com/alcoholism-addiction-spiritual-sickness/. I believe in God but I am not religious. I am deeply spiritual though. "God" to me is just a man-made term for something that doesn't care what we call it.
I am an atheist. I just let the god-stuff slide off. 
Roman Catholic - for a while my higher power was a shapeshifting Bear-like creature who I met through a series of dreams.  Eventually I abandoned this idea in favor of "God" as described by the religion of my upbringing.  An interesting thing about sacred texts is that there are [many names of God](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Names_of_God) (there are plenty in the BB if you look: "Spirit of the Universe" "Broad Highway" "Tzar of the Heavens").  I think this points to the fact that as also stated in AA literature everyone has a conception of God within him or herself.  I think one of the tools of religion is to help individuals contextualize this.  It may be useful to some not to others (some may reject it some embrace it some remain undecided).  However I believe one of the things religion *cannot* do is implant or project the idea of God in someone.  Perhaps at a superficial level only but it will always remain as such; it can only be experienced never encapsulated...I really love the following William James quote which I think is on point here:..This sense of the world's presence appealing as it does to our peculiar individual temperament makes us either strenuous or careless devout or blasphemous gloomy or exultant about life at large; and our reaction involuntary and inarticulate and often half unconscious as it is is the completest of all our answers to the question "What is the character of this universe in which we dwell?"..-William James The Varieties of Religious Experience page 35
I used to hate the word God. Today I use it because when I say 'God' everyone knows what I'm talking about. But my conception isn't exactly defined. I know what I don't believe in. I don't believe in some guy in the sky who determines who lives and who dies who rewards good behavior and punishes bad behavior who is keeping track of all these things to ultimately determine whether we make it to some utopia after we die. I do believe god is something we can connect with or tap into that can help change the things about ourselves that we've failed at changing. I'm an evidence based person. People told me that just being willing to believe in god started this transformation in their lives. In the beginning that was my only evidence. Today I have my own. I could be so wrong it could all be mind tricks or I could just be brain washed. But I know that when I put any reservations I have about god aside stop trying to control everything in my life and ask god for help things work out beautifully. I'd rather let go of the constant analysis and be wrong but have this amazing life and a peace I've never known before than be 'right' miserable and unable to stay sober. I really don't care if I'm right about what god looks like all I know is that when I depend on this power I'm okay and I don't want to drink anymore. 
my first read of the chapter to the agnostic was the same- I thought it was condescending. When I read it with my first sponsor while doing the steps my read of it changed to it suggesting an open mind. My third read of it with my second sponsor- when addressing the fact that what I had chosen as a higher power wasnt working for me any more was my favourite. The exercise was to go through the chapter writing down all the words I resisted (god but for me all the he/hims were also problematic etc) and to write a word I might replace each with that I was comfortable with. To a great extent god is used because it's easier and shorter. What helped me was looking around- there's no shortage of athiests and agnostics in the rooms who dont let it stop them. I do have a higher power now... it doesn't have a name yet or any sort of shape that I can focus on and I expect it will continue to change as I grow. There are lots of higher powers things I hold "bigger than me" for a long time alcohol was a higher power so I needed to find something equally as powerful but non-destructive. If you talk to people it might help you on your own path and concept. And athiests and agnostics will provide insight but I've also really enjoyed and gotten a lot out of people with more religious faith also... I've never encountered anyone who wanted me to trust their god only support for me finding my own. Best of luck- the struggle is worth it! It's supposed to be hard in a way good things often are in my experience.
Something created science (the simulation we exist in).  And science is a power greater than yourself.  Therefore whatever created science is also a power greater than yourself...It's been scientifically proven that "faith" relieves stress which has a positive impact on the biochemical/physiological happenings inside the brain/body...When you place your faith into doing the next right thing and leaving the results to god (good orderly direction karma sky wizard chance whatever) **you end up doing better and feeling better.**  *Isn't that the whole freaking point of it?*..I have a couple of atheists that regularly attend my home group one of which is the caretaker.  Love is the power greater than themselves they identify with...You can adopt whatever belief system you choose.  I'd suggest one that brings you relief and comfort.
My Atheist/Agnostic friends think of it this way; good orderly direction. The whole point is that we are not focused on ourselves anymore. Your higher power can be literally anything. Sometimes the newcomers find it easy to think of the group as a higher power. I hope that is helpful. 
For me it is acceptance. Step 1 - accept that I'm powerless; Step 2 - accept that I need help; Step 3 - embrace the power and paradox of acceptance itself.
I'm agnostic. To me the word 'God' simply puts name to a concept of whatever force or entity that created our universe and if such an entity of 'God' does exist it's something far beyond our ability to comprehend in any specific way at our current level of evolution and intelligence. ..But I also hold open the possibility that it or some agent of it should it exist does place some interest into our daily lives and wants us to be happy and whole so it doesn't hurt to ask such an entity for help in achieving your goals or wishes. ..ANd such 'talking to invisible people' seems likely to have some kind of beneficial purpose in the human psyche based on how many children who have no concept of God or religion invent imaginary friends on their own without being taught such behavior. Continuing that behavior into adulthood is likely beneficial. ..So if nothing else just think of 'talking to God' as a cognitive exercise to help you express and better define your thoughts and feelings by utilizing the mental conceptualization of the familiar activity of expression of talking to another person. 
I'm an atheist-leaning agnostic and I just take it mean a sense of the universe. Either I'm working in harmony with the universe (i.e. "God's will") or I'm working against it. And you can believe I feel it if I'm working against it - irritable and discontented everything pisses me off and I feel off balance. 
Here's my suggestion. Don't get wrapped around the axle about your conception of God. The 12-Step idea is that whatever your understanding of a Higher Power may be when you start the process it is inadequate to keep you sober. It's inadequate because a concept of an HP does not equal a relationship with an HP. That's where the rest of the Steps come in -- Step 3 is really just a decision to take the rest of the Steps wherein your HP is revealed through the process. When you come out the other side you'll have a new understanding and more importantly a loving relationship with a HP that will not only keep you sober but also give you the willingness and power to live a useful happy life. So let God be anonymous in Alcoholics Anonymous. There's nothing to figure out; it's all already been figured out. Just pray take actions and see what happens.
I grew up in a fundamentalist Southern Baptist environment and really believed in it.  That became a problem as a teen because I'm gay.  So I became agnostic in college then later Episcopalian because of their greater acceptance of homosexuality.  Once I had been sober for almost 20 years it finally dawned on me that the parts of Christianity I still believe in all come from Judaism.  I'm a few weeks away now from becoming a Jew (Reform).  What I love most about it so that Judaism is all about questioning including sometimes arguing with God.  I also love the fact that Judaism (on some accounts) teaches that God created the universe but left it incomplete for us to perfect.  That jibes for me with recovery because it means I can't just blame God if I think the world is fucked up; I have both the responsibility and the power to do something about it.  I understand this may not resonate very much with agnostics but it's my story.
have you tried praying about it? its amazing what answers will come into your life if you ask the right questions to "whatevers out there". worked for me.
I was at a meeting recently and someone used this description that I really like and I hope I get it right. It went something like this. ..Imagine a child in a room with their grandfather. The child wants to be on the grandfathers lap. The grandfather wants his grandson to sit on his lap. Neither of them have a care in the world except for wanting to be with each other at this very moment. That's how I imagine my higher power. 
Seems many skip taking the time in step 2 to discover what are their true beliefs which is too bad. When a person knows what's true for them (whatever that may be) there's no further conflict or confusion or debate needed or irritation from the beliefs of others...I became completely uninterested in the specifics of what others believe or don't believe at that point and see outlining my own as having the potential of influencing (harming) others who have yet to make their personal search...It's fine I suppose if people take off-the-rack ideas if they can be comfortable with them but for those who can't AA gives us an opportunity for personalizing our spiritual concepts. Worth taking.
I was raised by buddhists so my only conception of god is the universe. But it's not really an all knowing entity that controls things. ..It's all just energy colliding into each other making strange shapes. I was never told I had to believe in a greater power than myself But to find my strength within because we're all capable of great things. ..I subscribed here as a reminder to keep on trucking others have and so can you. 
Spirit of the universe.
