-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6pf4dg/an_essay_about_my_struggle_with_step_two/

Becoming a teetotaler is tremendously confusing work. First one is told to distract oneself and go for a walk with their dog do a crossword puzzle or call a friend. I have found this method of distraction to be the easiest way to maintain sobriety. Then the same soul is instructed to read pray meditate and attend meetings that focus exclusively on the object of their desire. ..When considering the second step I cannot pretend to consider God without considering the woman in the hijab that held her dying baby in a drought. This is a photo taken by the photographer Dominic Nahr for National Geographic and destroys every theodicy that I had ever constructed regarding a God that could be good just and benevolent. How can I expect the divine Vivisector to bless my journey in sobriety if he cannot even supply His children in Somalia with a season of sufficient precipitation for crops to grow? How can I thank God for keeping me from a booze cruise after happy hour when His most humble and faithful are suffering needlessly in the desert? ..There is seldom a moment that passes that I do not wish to believe in a Higher Power that contains some image of love and protection. But in this arena of danger famine war smoke and pestilence how can such a being exist? The atheist is really the generous soul that declines to believe in the Westboro God and chooses instead the path of a spiritual stray. Otherwise he is inclined to yield to the power of One that hatefully sends calamity death disease and depression on His children. The justification given by most nearby Christians is this  there is sin in the world and that is why these terrible events occur and persist.  ..Oh... So because the vapor of sin fumigates onto all humans at the first moment of exo-uterine life each is subject to experience the more terrorizing events and struggles that humanity has to offer. It seems not only unfair but intimately cruel and useless as a feature of reality. It seems that Jesus only accomplished an exorbitant amount of blood loss on the cross - rather than victory of this sweaty cloud of sin. ..(I will stop flipping the pancake of theology before it burns - or before I burn myself. I am splitting a head full of hairs here.)..The point is Step Two requires a most considerable sacrifice for me. It seems to require me to believe in a Holy Arbiter who would on one hand deny a season of rain to a community in northeastern Somolia but on the other hand could assist in expunging a DUI for an ungrateful redneck who doesn't pay child support. ..A power greater than myself? .	Absolutely. Let me list a few. .1. My boss .2. My bills.3. Bacteria..But none of these powerful things promise a restoration of my sanity.  That one is God may you find Him now!  reads the big book triumphantly. I usually see feet shuffle and dust kick off of the ceiling fans during this passage but rarely a beam of light in the center of the room of God announcing Himself. I guess I will stay patient for that moment..
----------immediate responses--------

Hey! Thanks for your post! The question of good and evil is a sticking point for many people. There are various explanations for why a Higher Power would allow suffering and disaster. Every religion has some sort of reconciliation with this and I do not wish to turn to a discussion into religious philosophies because I am not a religious person. However I will discuss this from the viewpoint of a scientist who sees no incompatibility between a Higher Power and science or logic..The Higher Power of my understanding is not one who promises a world with no evil. Humankind has developed higher brain functions which gives us a freedom of choice to act as we please. There are various explanations for why people do evil things and cause others to suffer. Sometimes they believe that what they are doing is right for some greater purpose. Sometimes they suffer a psychological illness   such as psychopathy   or have other psychological  demons  that cause their behavior   such as a history of abuse. Sometimes they are motivated by impure motives such as financial gain supporting an addiction political gain (Hitler) or even love. But we have a free will and any Higher Power that took that from us would turn us to robots..Disease and starvation are results of biology whether it be things that go wrong with incredibly complex bodies the presence of viruses and bacteria which are merely trying to survive and propagate or the vulnerability of crops and livestock to drought and disease. .Natural disasters   storms earthquakes floods drought meteors hitting the earth   all are the results of the laws of physics the laws of the universe. These are the same laws that destroy stars and planets and cause new ones to be formed and existing ones to change and develop. This is how the universe it and we are inhabitants of that universe. The existence of these laws and their incredible consistency across the universe speaks to the existence of a guiding force a power that exists above all others..It is not for us to understand the universe or what purpose if any it serves. To think that we humans could understand the nature of the universe and the things that happen is arrogance (sorry). There is suffering and evil and destruction in the world but I see nothing there that is not a result of the natural laws of the universe: biology physics. These things can conflict with our own perceived needs or cause outright suffering..The Higher Power of my understanding is benevolent in that I am greatly enabled to get through life's troubles including suffering in a way that I never could before. Instead of turning to drink or drug as I did before my connection with a Higher Power allows me to stay strong accept my situation maintain hope and help those around me. As we have seen we are uplifted in many ways   for example our overall sense of well-being happiness and physical health   by our connection with a Higher Power. Our Higher Power doesn't lift us up out of the world and make us immune to all things that don't agree with us but it does help us to live much better in our world. Therein lies its benevolence..
Here's the steps I used:._______________________________________..Step 1: I'm in a mess and over my head....Step 2: Maybe I don't have all the answers . so I'll ask for help...Step 3: Decide to pay attention to advice given. ..Step 4: Take an honest look at how I've been living my life...Step 5: Tell someone else about my unhealthy lifestyle and harm to others. ..Step 6: Decide to live a healthier kinder life...Step 7: Make specific changes toward that goal.. .Step 8: List everyone I have hurt...Step 9: Have the courage to tell them I'm sorry &amp; make amends except if doing so would cause harm. ..Step 10: Keep an eye on myself alert to old thinking and behaviors. ..Step 11: Be aware of the beauty in the world and people. ..Step 12: Pass on to others the kindness extended to me. .. 
For me the 12 steps is about not drinking.  Step 1 - I can't stop drinking on my own - once I realise that's step 1 done. Step 2 - These guys over here were like me but they've managed to stop drinking and they say a "higher power" has helped them. I ask myself a question "do I believe that it's possible for me to stop drinking just like they have?"  - well sure anything's possible so that's step 2 done...Save all the philosophising and theology for step 11. Just make a decision to follow the program (that's step 3 done) and start writing down your resentments as per page 64 in the Big Book...Either you want to live or you want to die - If you want to live stop pussyfooting around on steps 1 2 and 3.
It would be easier for you to understand Step 2 if you weren't laboring under a completely infantile understanding of Christian theology.
do you believe it worked for us? okay. now onto step 3. i learned that when i'm intellectualizing something it's because i don't want to do it. 
Consider not restricting "higher power" to human limitations.  Gravity itself is a hell of a higher power than your bills.  Heck you can't see it it's hard to explain it's all around you and go ahead and try proving it doesn't exist from a rooftop.  No I am NOT saying use gravity as a higher power!  But I found meditating on what a source of unlimited power would be capable of and eventually realized how foolish and LIMITED my own understanding was.  Only then was I able to pray and begin to get rid of so many old ideas about what my God could be capable of.  I wasn't going to settle on a doorknob. 
You've constructed a false dichotomy:  either present me with a God-concept that is perfectly clear and watertight or I won't believe anything.  ..It's OK to use your home group or AA as a whole as your HP.  All that would require is that you come to believe that they know more collectively about alcoholism and recovery from it than you do individually.  ..To me the really dangerous belief for an alcoholic is that the universe is stacked against us.  It supports our belief that we are "screwed no matter what" so we may as well drink.
