-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6pmn61/shame_and_guilt_after_a_relapse/

It took everything I had to walk into a meeting after I had relapsed. "I won't take a chip" I thought to myself. "What will everyone think?". I had time I had a sponsee to whom I had just presented a chip to a week prior. I was doing everything that was asked of me. I had 2 homegroups was very active in service and giving back. When I was the speaker at meetings I would get called inspirational. ..But why was I doing it? I'm starting to think it was for recognition. I liked the attention I got from being the example. I guess my 4th step could have been more thorough. ..I'm a little all over the place right now. I've been to a few meetings since the relapse but haven't taken a chip. Today I was listening to a Macklemore song. These 2 lines near the end hit me:.."If I can be an example of getting sober.Then I can be an example of starting over."..That's it. I'm going to a meeting later today. I'm going to take a chip. Nobody will judge me. Nobody will think less of me. I'm proud of being part of AA and I'm not gonna let my ego take over me...I don't know why I'm posting this just maybe this could help 1 other person who's feeling shame right now. If there's a single place I know where you will not be judged it's Alcoholics Anonymous. ..Have a good 24 everyone
----------immediate responses--------

Welcome back :) Picking up a chip and "starting over" after relapsing is one of the most inspirational things I can think of. ..I relapsed after 4.5 years and am coming up on 5 months here soon. We're in this together! 
There is a woman in my home group who had 32 years and relapsed. She was out for a year and a half and really struggled when she came back - probably picked up 5 white chips that I know of. She's got about 2 months now. I can't tell you how much her fight and her honesty has helped the group. No one that I know views her as anything but incredibly brave and inspirational. We NEED people like you and her. This is a fatal disease and we need all the information we can get. ..Thank you so much for sharing here.   ..
Your courage is awesome! you're doing the right thing. The secret would haunt you. Thanks for sharing with us!
Nobody is going to judge you. And if they do they have crap sobriety. Working the 12 steps sponsoring and going to meetings does NOT guarantee us anything. No amount of chips will guarantee anything. Today is all we have. I've seen it in the rooms that some people have that feeling if you've worked the steps you're cured. I'm sure there are people that will judge you but those people have more issues than time magazine. The people with good sobriety know they are just as likely to drink again if they aren't in fit spiritual condition. Have a good 24.
Looking back I found that there were a *lot* of things I used to do for attention/recognition/admiration even before I started drinking. ..In the end they're just insecurities and like you said the ego taking over and making too much noise. It shows a lot of maturity that you can confront that and see it for what it is. Last time I relapsed it took me nearly six years to get back on track. I felt very ashamed I was that guy at parties who proudly proclaimed "I don't drink!". Fast forward six years later and I was a quivering wreck with hardly any friends left. Now I'm nearly two years sober and to be honest I never thought I would ever be able to quit again. Feeling ashamed is not the same as being ashamed and anyone who would shame you for owning up has their own issues. Either way temporarily feeling that way sure beats that living hell that drinking alcohol puts me in. Thank you for sharing this and welcome back. We need you!
This experience you're having now is golden...you can help many with it as you go along. Proud that we've got members like yourself.
I relapsed almost a year ago and the guilt was intense (had 4 years before) .But by you picking up a chip you can show others that even if they go out they can always come back and will be welcomed with open arms. 
It sucks but only because you make it. No one will bat an eye....and we are glad to have you back!
I'm sending you my love and support.  You did what an alcoholic does naturally.  Your sobriety is a miracle of courage if it is 50 years or one day...Try to keep in mind that shame is not a tool of recovery.  It's an obstacle.  You drank because you are an alcoholic.  You are sober because you are a spiritual warrior.  Claim the pride you have earned by coming back.
time doesnt equal recovery friend. we all only have today.
May I humbly suggest you look up Norm A. In AA speakers on YouTube? It's an excellent listen and I actually thought of you when he got to talking about his sponsor. Have a great day!  
