-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6pp6ur/feeling_awful_8_weeks_into_relapse/

Hi all..34 year old male. First sobriety experience was in a "facility" which is very unique not impatient 30 day type not quite a sober living house. A middle ground so to speak. ..I got sober there and stayed sober for four years 2008-2012 before an acute onset of Crohn's Disease in my third year sober derailed me. It took about a year but I relapsed on pain killers. ..Stayed out battling Crohn's and taking painkillers along with the bottle until 2015 when I was able to go to a treatment center for two weeks and then straight to a sober living home. Then due to medications (prednisone oral chemotherapy immunomodulators etc) very heavy "medicines" I had to have a total hip replacement at 33 years old. I underestimated what the "non narcotic" tramadol would do to someone opiate naive. I relapsed again after 15 months sober. ..This past January was fortunate enough to go to treatment in Florida. I got sober the third time mid Jan 2016 and relapsed for literally no reason other than working a weak program 2 meetings a week stalling ok my fourth step etc. I put effort into other areas rather than focusing on recovery. Ran my first marathon was riding and doing 70-100 mile bike rides routinely. I found endurance athletics when I first got sober in 2008 at 25. ..Now here I am. Ebbing and flowing I was able to string together 5 days since I relapsed last. ..I am at wits end :/ it's my third major relapse since 2008 and they've all been progressively worse- this one headed that way if I am unable to right the ship. ..I am an alcoholic to the core- I drink heavily while active I am also a drug addict. Opiates benzodiazepines cocaine. ..I have an opportunity to move into a sober house with a few friends of whom I've known since 2008 and who have stayed sober since then. Great AA friends of mine true friends. The catch was I needed to be employed to move into this sober house. My current living situation is terrible with family- whom all use heavily mother father and younger brother. ..I got a job yesterday! A very humbling job delivering pizzas. Coming from someone who as a result of sobriety was a high voltage cable spliced for five years and then the director of continuing education at a law firm for two years. Relapse got me fired from both fantastic careers. ..Now here I sit. Trying to doctor myself using benzos and alcohol to get off opiates. Trying to "master plan" myself into sobriety. It is not working. In two weeks I went from taking 2mg Xanax a day which would have me feeling drunk or just pass out to yesterday taking 7mg of Xanax in a day. ..What a mess I've made. ..I know that if I can muster the few days clean to pass the urine test to move into the sober house I stand a VERY good chance of righting the ship and getting sober again. ..TL;DR - 3 major relapses two months into the third relapse. Unable to string together more than just a few days. Opportunity to move into sober living environment next week. I need help. I can't do this alone. ..New job schedule is working 5pm to 9pm daily- all of my go to meetings where I know everyone and feel at home I am unable to attend. ..I need help. 
----------immediate responses--------

I am crying right now. Thank you for letting me vent. I know you all understand you all "get it."
My last relapse dragged out for 8 months before I could put the bottle down. The adventures were surprising and unpleasant. A few thoughts...you don't say when the job starts (I assume it will be soon but not immediate). Consider committing to a morning meeting and a nooner and a solid eve group before your job starts (not a flaky fellowship hall). Show up daily without having a drink or being loaded before. Shake it out and don't worry about looking bad as no one could look good in this spot. ..If you get nuts during the day hang out at the Alano club or where sober people may gather. Remember to eat a little something every couple of hours. Call and talk to members before you next drink or drug. Chances are good that one will offer to let you hang out with them while they do their job. Take all offers of help that come along and don't 'wander off bored' on your own...Your sobriety will be weak and iffy for some months. Don't allow yourself to slack off your pillars of support...you don't know which is holding up the whole thing. Start working with your old or a new sponsor and decide in advance you'll do what they suggest this time..
Thanks for reaching out and sharing! You ran a marathon on a total hip replacement?? Wow. Sounds like you know something about comebacks. When you read the stories of alcoholic in the back part of the Big Book and listen to others sharing at meetings one thing that stands out is how "miraculously" their lives came back together for them when the made one thing their top priority and did what they needed to do to take care of it: recovery...It doesn't sound like doing things your way has worked out so well in terms of freeing yourself from the drugs and alcohol. Perhaps it's time to let go and stop trying to do it your way with your master plan of self-tapering. I would suggest that you get into a 7-day detox facility and accept their way. When you leave there go straight into the sober living house so you have a framework for recovery and a safe place to live in early recovery. And go to AA (many members are alcoholics and addicts) and similarly let go of your need for control and do what they say. Get a sponsor get a home group. Read their book. Go to meetings. 
I have a similar experience to all that. Believe it or not today I'm grateful for it. Without that hell I wouldn't have surrendered and let the program pick me up and carry me along. Hang in there.
One day at a time. One moment at a time if need be. Don't worry about past relapses and don't worry about the future. Now tonight that's the only time you have to be concerned with. 
