-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6qy7ut/daily_prescribed_xanax_and_heavy_alcohol_two/

I am not sure if they are right for me or not because I have got my Xanax use down to about a half a mg every other day and I was never a daily drinker but I drank very heavy at least one or two nights a week every week for about 10 years.  Now that I have stopped both things I find that I am crying all the time questioning the reason for my existence having a hard time socializing because all of my friends are heavy drinkers.  However I can have alcohol in my house and not drink it and I have pretty much gotten my Xanax use under control but not completely stopped.  I just feel very miserable and very lost.  I have this horrible feeling that everything I do in life is just busy work.  I have almost adult kids and I am a single parent  I feel like I just keep holding onto life for them to not put them through any suffering.  So I keep having thoughts that I may as well start drinking again and taking more Xanax again because it feels like the only way I can get through.  If anyone has any kind of advice related to AA or NA or just general advice I would really appreciate it.
----------immediate responses--------

I'd go to an AA meeting and check it out! I go every night after 11 years because it works.. it's the real.Deal and all this can end if you want it to. What do you have to lose? .  I hope you find what I found.. a new life. 
"Now that I have stopped both things I find that I am crying all the time questioning the reason for my existence" this seems like a typical by-product of benzo use/withdrawal. Happened to me when I stopped. If you quit them completely these symptoms will go away after a while. Try AA a different group of friends would be good for your health.
Xanax withdrawal is best handled by a doctor. Like alcohol Xanax detox can be dangerous. You are probably going too fast with cutting down. Please see a doctor. 
It's pretty simple really. Alcohol and drugs aren't the problem. Alcohol and drugs are what we use to DEAL with the problem.  ..So when we quit we're left with the problem and no way to deal with it. Quitting is the *easy* part.  ..First of all you're by no means alone. All of us felt this way and feeling this way really sucks. What I did was find some people who managed to find a way to feel better and listen when they told me how they did it.  ..I've never had a tremendous respect for authority. I wouldn't listen to parents or doctors or employers. But when I went to AA I found a roomful of people who at one time were just as fucked as I was but managed somehow to unfuck themselves.  ..Just finding out that I wasn't lost that I wouldn't feel miserable forever and that I could open up and talk to someone who knows what it's like....priceless.  ..&gt; "I may as well start drinking again and taking more Xanax again because it feels like the only way I can get through"  ..Yeah. I felt that way too. It's not the only way. It's just the only way you know of so far. Come to an AA meeting let us show you a different way.  ..I've been sober for 1576 days. Over 4 years and the work I did through AA has transformed me in ways I never thought possible. I never thought I would ever get out of my misery but I can tell you it's possible. It's not easy but it can be done.  ..So give it a try check out a meeting and see if you can't find a better solution to the problem than stuffing molecules into your bloodstream. Try it. If it doesn't work I promise you the booze and the pills will be waiting for you.  ..Who knows if you do it right you just might end up happier than you ever imagined. It's worth a shot.
Oh I really hope you go to a few meetings I said a few because they can vary a lot in format but I get so much out of it it's just so helpful for me I hope you have an open mind and check it out. I really wish you the best thanks for sharing too 
