-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6rwnjm/need_advice_for_a_friends_relapse/

My best friend has relapsed. I'm really concerned because I live 1000 miles away. I feel like calling him or texting him about this isn't the best way to communicate how it makes his family and I feel. I will be seeing him later this month but he has been drinking and driving. I feel that I need to talk to him sooner or than later. The only people who seem to care to talk to him about his drinking is his parents or me. .It's hard for me since I have only been on the other end. I grew up surrounded by alcoholics and drugs. Seeing this growing up I have never really had the interest. ..Should I call him text him talk to his parents or wait until I see him face to face?
----------immediate responses--------

Maybe just ask him how he's going and let him know you're there for him. Don't push him just let him express himself ask questions... often when I tell someone how I am I hear the truth for the first time...also check out /r/alanon  I think they're better at this than we are
Wow sorry to hear that. Speaking as an alcoholic in recovery I can say that it is shameful the sickness and worry and hurt we bring on our loved ones when we are in our cups as you are finding out. Unfortunately we can seldom be talked or pushed into sobriety. Here is something that might help you understand where he's at in terms of readiness to get sober: http://www.alcoholism-addiction-psychology.com/barriers-recovery/..You mention that he relapsed so I take it he has been in recovery before. If someone was in recovery and did something to address what makes them drink and learn about recovery (such as involvement in AA) their relapses are generally very short. Most of the people I know from AA who did relapse did so for a few days or weeks at most. If he's interested he can talk to us here. A lot of people carry great shame when they relapse an the might find it easier to start talking with us. There are many caring and knowledgeable people who post here with lots of experience...Thanks for caring about him. I will pray for you and your friend. Keep us posted!
Tough call.  Be supportive but don't enable if you can. He will have to decide to quit in his own. Making things easier through money and such will just drag things out.
Hey there. I think this is sort of an ALANON issue. My experience and perhaps the experience of other Alcoholics is that people reaching out and telling me how my behavior made them feel didn't work at all. People did it for years and years. What worked for me personally was when my phone stopped ringing. People got tired of my nonsense and just stayed away. This was the start of my reflection about what this thing was doing. Being alone... if I asked they would say things like "I'm not going to be a part of this anymore" or things like that. .  Just my own thoughts as I don't know what to do for a friend of an alcoholic. The best I can do is tell you what happened to me personally and suggest you check out an ALANON thread. It will be filled with people who have experience with Alcoholics. .  Very best. 
