-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6s8063/help_responding_to_someone_struggling_with/

I hope this is the right place to ask this. My vices and we all have them lie in different areas so I don't have much experience with the AA culture...I have a former coworker who has an alcohol problem. According to him he drinks about a fifth of run every night. He has alienated the rest of his coworkers his family and all of his irl friends except for me. (He has some online friends from gaming though)..He has been getting surlier and surlier towards me and my family since I went to another job and it has culminated with his texting me an expletive filled attack last night. I won't get into the drama behind it unless asked...As selfish as this is I don't want ths behavior in my life. I have a wife and a small child and don't want this behavior in their lives...When he eventually apologizes I am considering telling him that I forgive him but that actions have consequences. In this case the consequence is that I don't want him contacting me again until he's in AA...Is this a good response? I am actually a little worried he might be considering suicide and worried that I could push him that direction instead of towards recovery.
----------immediate responses--------

Son of alcoholic reporting. In AA they teach "detach with love." Sometimes you have to detach in a manner such as this. Setting such a boundary is very healthy.
You are being harassed and threatened. Why is it selfish not to want this in your life? I'd contact law enforcement if it continues. Better yet block his number...Suicide would be his choice. Don't be emotionally blackmailed by thinking what he does is your fault. 
You are being harassed and threatened. Why is it selfish not to want this in your life? I'd contact law enforcement if it continues. Better yet block his number...Suicide would be his choice. Don't be emotionally blackmailed by thinking what he does is your fault. 
You are being harassed and threatened. No one wants or deserves this. It is unacceptable and illegal behavior. Block his number. Don't enable him by overlooking his behavior. ..What he does is his choice. You are not responsible. This includes suicide. 
I apologized to friends for my actions but it never meant anything to me.  I heard all of their suggestions threats etc. but it was just words...The hold alcohol had on me was much stronger than any relationship whether it was a friend a spouse or any other family member.  I was always remorseful but only as long as I needed to be.  I eventually ended up alone because alcohol was all powerful...If you want to help check out [Al-Anon](https://al-anon.org/) or [/r/AlAnon](https://www.reddit.com/r/AlAnon/)...Otherwise if you want advice Somuch2learn is right on the money: ditch your friend the abuse isn't worth it and likely not going to stop...
That's a perfect response. And don't put a second thought into it until he approaches you to make amends while doing his Step 9 in AA as part of his new sober life. 
He's a hurt person and you care about him from what I can tell. Detach with no hard feelings and if he knows that I believe there's a better chance it'll hit home. If he can't blame it on you and he'll try at least in his own mind he's trapped into looking at himself. Thanks for caring enough to come here and check in. You sound like a very good friend.
It's not selfish at all.  You might even be helping him.  Many of us needed to lose jobs relationships etc. before we could wake up and get sober.  Don't feel obligated to be gentle.  If you were his SO I would advise changing the locks and getting a restraining order...Alcoholism is a disease and your guy is acting out on his suffering.  If you can see him as a sick person rather than a bad person it might help you be less angry--which would just be you punishing yourself for his bad behavior.  But draw the boundary by all means.  Draw a fucking bright line.
