-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6t9df7/anyone_here_use_medical_marijuana/

Ok. I know it a crazy question but I have been struggling with severe anger issues. Background: I almost have 4 years I see a psychiatrist am on mood stabilizers take lithium orotate calm powder and drink kava tea which are all supposed to help. I also pray and meditate everyday. I just seems to have so much rage sometime. I also know they have manipulated certain strains that don't get you high but do have calming effects treat epilepsy etc. I'm not itching to get high or even leaning towards the idea but I just wanted some other opinions before I bring it to my sponsor. Thanks guys. 
----------immediate responses--------

Wish I had an answer just here to say I hope you find something that works. I'm 38 and aside from becoming completely apathetic to life I too can't manage my anger. I'm boiling mad at how life has turned out. 
Do what you gotta do. Smoke if you need to. Why do you have to ask your sponsor is he a doctor. 
No if I used marijuana it would break my sobriety. 
If you have bipoloar disorder marijuana is not a good idea. Please talk with your doctor. It has been known to trigger serious mental problems...worse than what you already have. 
i had anger issues. i went to a therapist twice a week. i needed someone to help me not shove pills down my throat. the answers are within us sometimes we just need some help pulling them out. 
No but I have used medical opiates by prescription. For me the alcoholic it turned into a disaster. Just because something has the word "medical" appended to it doesn't make it bullet-proof. Beware the wolf in sheep's clothing. Just make sure you have a good discussion with your doctor about it and make her/him aware of any addiction issues you have had. Then you can make a good decision together. If you're an alcoholic in A.A. maybe discuss it with someone who knows you and your recovery (your sponsor). 
Well let's see... this is an AA sub. I wonder if AA has anything to say about dealing with anger? Wow... it sure does.... in fact it's probably in the top 3 things talked about in the entire program. Have you read it? Taken the steps? .   A huge component of the 12 steps is about mitigating anger. In fact the book says resentment is our number one offender and it needs to be mastered if we are to live. Have you read that? Do the steps for Gods sakes. That's what AA has to offer. .   It baffles me when the advice given is everything but what AA actually says... get a sponsor. Do the steps. Steps are designed for exactly this sort of thing. .   I hope you give it a shot and it works. My experience? Working with others in an AA format when they are on drugs doesn't work. I think being uncomfortable is part of what drives me to what this book is about which is a spiritual experience. Trading one mask for another would never work for me if what I want is real peace and serenity. .  Just my thoughts.. maybe a little harsh. I'm ok with that. I'd say the exact same thing in a meeting. This is AA... let's work the program of AA and see if it works. .  Best to you 
