-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6tcp59/the_last_time/

As I sit here I have been telling myself that "this is my last drink" and "tomorrow is going to be my first day of sobriety"  ..I told myself that tomorrow I am quitting alcohol completely. Im sick of craving the next drop and impatiently waiting for when I can feel it's seducing warming effects again. It's effecting my marriage and also it's controlled my life for far too long. ..I have a glass in my hand and I'm literally looking into it thinking of how hard it is going to be. But at the same time a part of my brain is saying "Sal this is gonna be tough but we can do it" but I'm terrified of relapsing. I don't want to be that person. ..Even now contemplating sobriety all I want to do is get as fucked up as possible for one last hoorah. But I know that's the wrong answer.  But fucking Christ do I want to continue. ..I guess this is my very fond farewell my fellow redditors. I'm looking for a clearer path from now on. I look for your support and your guidance on this rough path. I do not believe in god but if any of you could offer words of support they are greatly appreciated. ..I know AA has very strong Christian overtones embedded but if you could give me guidance it would be utilized in a very useful manner. 
----------immediate responses--------

Wow! Have I been there! I don't know how many "tomorrow I'm gonna get my act together" days I've had. I hope you are not discounting AA because they really have the answer for many people. I am not religious at all but I do have a higher power. Many of my friends in AA have a higher power that is not God. For some it's nature music the mind the universe the fellowship as a group a daughter or even the telephone pole outside the window. The program is all-inclusive when it comes to beliefs and ideas and it definitely doesn't require a belief in God. The thing is that you don't even need to have any of that stuff figured out in order to get sober and get going in the program. I hope you consider giving the program a try rather than just discount because of your perceptions of its creed. All it takes is a desire to stop drinking and the rest will follow. 
Come back tomorrow and see what happens. No one can help you here if you're drinking. .  I hope you come back. 
Just guidance with how to cope with the absence of alcohol and what I can do to help with this transition to sobriety 
Hope to hear the good news tomorrow.
