-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6tcy47/relapsed_today/

Never posted before. Had a drink today after 63 days sober. Feeling guilty sad and alone.
----------immediate responses--------

sadness and loneliness are something I deal with often but it gets easier and has lessened for me the more meetings I frequent as I get to know people because that just takes time. there is community there and they love us until we can love ourselves. 63 days is a great accomplishment you can get back there. 
Glad you made it back. A lot of people don't. 
Me too. after 10 days short of 2 years. Don't feel bad it happens.
I just got home tonight from a meeting where a guy I know resurfaced from going out on a 3-day (I think; unclear) binge. I was just glad he made it back and hope he makes back it again tomorrow.  .  .I'm always grateful for the people who come back. They may not have intended to when they picked up a drink but by coming back after a relapse they remind me how easy it can be to find an excuse or mindless moment to start drinking again. Yet their first-hand qualitative research studies inevitably prove to me I'm better off not doing so. Not that I want others to drink to show me how bad it can get once we start again but I'm *very* grateful for the folks who come back. In my short five and a half years I've already known several who didn't and died.  
For some people it can take years of being in and out of the rooms while chronically relapsing.  One of my closest friends in AA tells a story of going to meetings for over 3 years while still drinking.  He knew he wanted what AA had but refused to believe he was powerless.  ..Larry just had his 26 year anniversary.  Although he has quite a number of health issues since retiring he credits AA with giving him back the years he undoubtedly would have missed due to death.  His family stayed close and he has been able to enjoy his grandchildren.  We always have your back friend just like Larry has always had mine in all the years I've known him.
There's still a seat for you at meetings. 
Hanging out today with a guy that relapsed for 9 years. He's got 43 years now. Took him 9 years before he did the stuff that works well. Took me over 6 years of screwing around with AA to begin doing that same stuff 35 years ago...Do yourself a favor and catch the beat quicker than we did.
Chris R. - Relapse Prevention - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WdV2iUAoPQA
Never quit quitting. 
