-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6tgui5/struggling_to_find_my_place_in_aa_can_anyone/

[deleted]
----------immediate responses--------

Do you have different groups you can attend?  Have you considered saying at a meeting something like "I'm trying to see the similarities but y'all are so dang old you been sober almost as long as I've been alive and I just don't see how I can relate" ... because ... you know ... that'd be honest right?..&gt; "Get a sponsor now and if you don't like him get someone else"..Man I hate that nonsense!  Its like a sponsor is a gas station ... just go fill up somewhere else eh?  Find someone who you think can help you with the steps: nothing more.  Not a friend not someone you 'identify' with - someone who can help you with the steps.  A good healthy relationship will probably be the long term end result but that is not the reason you should have a sponsor!..You know you don't have to use a member of AA for the 5th step right?  The book even tells us we don't have to use a single person.  I used a rabbi who I met for a completely unrelated reason and no I'm not Jewish and no I'm not even religious.  The guy knew about AA and expressed admiration for the program and it stuck with me so when it was my time to do step 5 I sought him out and asked if he would give me some time for my 5th...In all seriousness share what you've shared here at the meetings during the meetings.  You're an alcoholic you can't do this alone you can't relate you feel pushed out and dammit all to hell you're trying and need help. If nothing else getting it out is going to be good for YOU even if the group you're dealing with isn't a healthy group :)
A few thoughts. The people in their 50s with 20 years were once in your shoes as newcomers in their 30s and probably felt the same as you do now. I was different being in my 20s when new and wondered how anyone in their early 30s could possibly understand what I was going through. And I sponsored people in their 60s that felt way different too. It's b.s. self-serving illusions and self-centeredness imo. We're the same in our certainty that we are different...Advice...stay away from the flaky fellowship halls find a group in the good part of town where people show up regularly and do not float around unconnected. A group where all the members have sponsors and take steps...Don't be some new person's first experiment in sponsorship. Find a guy with lots of sponsees that have stayed sober. Don't hint around like a wuss without a spine ask him directly for his help...When the group does something (an AA move a convention picnic at the park) make sure you participate. Show up at the group meetings and tell on yourself when you screw up. Join AA instead of being a fringer...
&gt;I tried sharing this yesterday but they were so hell bent on talking about "taking AA back from newcomers" that it made me seal my lips. ..What do you mean they wouldn't listen to what exactly happened?..I would try different groups. There are some groups that I didn't feel comfortable in but eventually I found a group full of the people that were my age and much older and good mix of people...
AA groups can be tough. Take the cotton out of your ears and stick it in your mouth always works well for the person talking :). All it takes is to find one or two somewhat normal people to be helpful. Might take some time. Until then - online ain't so bad. good luck
