-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6tp248/todays_my_birthday_and_i_want_to_get_drunk/

As the title says today is my birthday and I want to get drunk. ..I'm a nasty drunk. Alcohol always makes me mean. I get arrested when I drink. I'm actually going to court still from the last time I drank...And yet I still want to get drunk...I'm not even getting the 'Let's just have a couple beers and see how it goes' self talk I usually have when I'm talking myself into a relapse. I feel like skipping all the foreplay and jumping right into a bottle of cheap vodka. I just want to get drunk...I can't physically go to a meeting today so this is about the best I can do to make an anonymous post in an anonymous group and just admit that I want to get drunk...I want to get drunk but I will take it one day at a time and one day at a time I will not drink. ..Thank you for taking the time to read this...I'm Tylor and I'm alcoholic. 
----------immediate responses--------

Hey man thanks for sharing. I've been in the mode of "talking myself into a relapse" recently without even realizing it. Every time I had serious consequences from drinking it was in the winter time. I live on the Jersey Shore which is a huge Summer party area. All I could think about recently is how great it would feel to drink some beers on the beach listen to some music forget about my problems for awhile. Sounds fun huh? Except that's only Act 1 Scene 1 of the disaster that is to come (probably more like the prologue). Sooner than later the fun and sun will turn into darkness and misery as I stumble about looking for the handle to help ease my shakes not knowing what day or time it is (only if its night or day) not knowing where I'm supposed to be who I've let down lied to or screwed over this time. Nothing else matters as long as I can get some of that sweet fire water in my body. The rest of the world can burn for all I care...*It is so great to not have to feel like that today*. Thank for sharing; you helped me stay sober today. Happy Birthday hope this year is better than the last.
Hey Tylor! Thanks for your honesty. Doesn't sound like a very nice birthday present to give yourself. Hearing you speak like this reminds me why I can't go back to drinking why not drinking went from being "I can't drink" to "I won't drink." I think if you intended to go out and drink you would have just done it rather than posting here. Please call your sponsor first. If you don't have a sponsor call someone from the program. And go to a meeting as soon as you can. Is there someone in recovery you can stay with tonight?..
Hi Tylor and Happy Birthday!   ..When I am sober I can *want to get drunk* and choose to not drink. 
