-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6u058l/7_years_sober_and_everyone_around_me_is_dying/

Wtf!.If I make it out of 2017 I better sprout wings and become godly
----------immediate responses--------

This thing of ours will kill you. I ended up in the hospital twice on my last run.
Coming up on 6 years sober in October this year.....That one sentence has made me realize exactly what i am still working towards everyday of recovery.
Years 7 and 8 we call the graveyard shift around here. An old time told me to "take a look at around you at sobriety countdowns around the 7 year mark and you see hardly anyone.  At around 7 years people get their lives together. They get a new job new partner. They start to think they can do without AA and stop going to meetings"...A lot of miraculous things have happened to me in my 7th year. I am finally debt free. I have my licence back and a company car. My wife and kids have asked me to come home which means a move to another city where I know hardly no-one accept those on my step 8 list. ..I move on Sunday. I'm planning on being in a meeting Sunday night and Monday and Tuesday and Wednesday and Thursday and Friday and Saturday and repeat. I'm gonna make it through the graveyard shift come what may...
Thank you all who responded to me btw I greatly appreciate it more than anything...What prompted this was just two weeks ago two people who were still in early recovery died two days apart from each other. Monday one of my coworkers (who was in the program and had 20 years) relapsed and overdosed. They found him dear once he didn't show up for work...I know the work makes sense practically too much sense it's just these rough patches that shake me up a bit. I've been at meetings every day this week and reading my literature; the fundamentals never fail.
Hiya thanks for sharing. Sometimes I really really really get mad at the new comers: especially after going to funerals. ..But then I snap out of the funk and realize how friggin' cunning baffling and powerful this disease of ours is. Alcohol and drugs take at least another victim each day. I know that if I do what I learned I have a chance to not be one of those poor unfortunates.  ..It breaks my heart. All of those lives lost. But I made it yesterday so that I can be here for you and for my loved ones. I will make it through today too. ..Damn it. What a world we have.
Wow! You are telling my story exactly!! 7 years sober July 17. Just lost another friend a week ago. Its been a real tough year. Lost several people I'm close to. I talked with my sponser about it. He said "constant vigilance kid" 
5-10 year period.  Graveyard years.  I hear about this in the rooms.  Met an old-timer recently who said it's the 2-5 year people who drop off. ..It's all a crock of shit.   Tell them all to fuck off. ..It's ONE DAY AT A TIME.  DAILY REPRIEVE. That's all it is.   We're all only sober since we woke up this morning.   Getting our heads round that concept and holding that attitude is the challenge. 
The best thing we can do for ourselves and to honor them is to stay sober. We can't let their deaths be in vain. They died so we all remember what brought us into these rooms. Let's carry the message and help the next person.
