-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6ufuk0/140_days_sober_and_the_feelings_of_past_actions/

after being addicted to different substances and alcohol for the past 12ish years....AA has become my run to place this week. I haven't wanted a drink since I quit cold turkey March 31st of this year...A little back story on my life:.-came from a broken home (sperm donor was and still is a raging alcoholic and heroin addict).-started being sexually abused at the age of 6 up until I was 11..-at 9 years old I started cutting myself avidly for the next 5 years.-at age 12 I broke my ankle and started developing ovarian cysts. Cue the beginning of my vicodin addiction that lasted 2 years.-got super wasted at the age of 14 and had been drinking ever since except for 9 months at the age of 16 due to becoming pregnant with my son..After all of this I went through two bad breakups. The first was from my sons dad.. I blamed him.. For everything. He wasn't perfect... Cheated and lied. But I always took him back. Always forgave. Even after i caught him IN BED with another woman. And I blame myself now because had I been sober I would've let him leave before we ever hit a rough patch. I've realized that when he and I got together at the age of 15 and 16 years old.. I was trying so hard to have some control of my crazy life that I dragged him into my world of destruction and sadness thinking he could fix me. That wasn't his job.. He tried to love a broken little girl and when he did we were a phenomenal couple. As I've claimed my sobriety I've realized that I dont think I ever truly loved him the way I thought I did. And it breaks my heart more than he ever broke mine. It wasn't a waste of time. This guy gave me the best thing to ever happen to me.. But realizing that i could've spared us years of turmoil has me all the way in my feelings...After he and I ended things for good.. I met this wonderful man. He loved me and my child. He wanted to see us grow together. He always took me out. We were always having a good time.. By a good time I mean getting beyond fucked up every time we didnt have my son. Then it started becoming more frequent. Fast forward a year into our relationship and I'm in cosmetology school and he has a great job.. Fast forward again to another year and I'm just about to finish school.. I end up pregnant and I miscarry. I took a 6 week LOA from school to cope. Which was just me drinking more And I even started cutting myself again after 5 years of not doing it.. And thats when things started spiraling for us as a couple. He wouldn't come home most nights. I would stay up til 5/6 o'clock in the morning waiting for him. I wasn't perfect.. I yelled and cussed him out 99% of the rest of the time because of this. I end up finding out he was doing meth. And as much as I wanted to fix him all hell basically broke lose. My miscarriage was in May 2015 and when things ended it was the following February (2016). In that short time he became increasingly violent. Never hurting my child. Never letting him see the path that was unfolding. He had busted my lip one time and bruises all over myself the second time around. The night we broke up I had found all of his emails to women on a Meet and Fuck site. That was it. I was done. I didnt have a phone so I was using his to screenshot the emails to my mom and best friend. He got up and grabbed me by my hair as I was sitting on the floor.. I run to the bathroom/closet and the next thing I know he was coming at me so I went to push him and in return he slammed my face into a metal rack. Don't have recollection of about 30-45 seconds. I come to and feel my face hurting. I get what I can and leave. As I'm grabbing stuff I hear him say " I didn't mean to hurt you but you brought this on yourself. " Following morning I'm in so much pain I don't have a choice but to go to the ER. Get there and the cops are called by my mother. And when they start taking pictures I ended up with way more bruising than I imagined. my CT scans and MRI of my face came back good but my chest x-ray showed bruising and my chest wall was swollen. Stayed two days in the hospital. Come to find out that he had been doing meth our entire relationship. I pressed charges moved my son and I back home lost EVERYTHING and found a good job. But as the year went on I began to lose complete control. ..In October i had a breakdown and was diagnosed with PTSD and major depression.. Even though I was taking care of my bills and supporting my son I was always working and always getting fucked up trying to numb all my pain. I didn't DRINK to have a good time. I drank to forget every part of my past. The day before Christmas guess who was in jail for public intoxication? This girl.. Anyways.. Didn't ever hear from the cops regarding my ex until this February.. A whole year after filing charges. It sent me into an array of self destructing actions. Lost a good job.. I don't even remember being at work the day I got fired. And that's when I finally decided I couldn't live the way I was living anymore. ..Last week I receive a subpoena to show up in court to testify. That's when I wanted to drink about it. I didn't but I wanted to so bad. So i show up to court and my ex didn't show. Which means he forfeited his bail. And is now wanted by the county. ..The feelings are so fucking overwhelming its almost consuming me. Its fucking hard and I'm scared. I know I'm not going to pick up a bottle or anything but I'm struggling with how to handle feelings I'm not used to. 
----------immediate responses--------

You have a tremendous amount of courage to face the issues you mentioned without drinking. 
Everything is magnified when we are in early sobriety. It can feel overwhelming without the support and guidance of others who can relate to us. Have you considered getting a sponsor? Having one right now could prove really helpful and working the steps could help you process some of those feelings and work toward peace of mind.
trying walking very long distances --you'll be amazed what happens .
My friend I feel heavy about the hard life you've led. Me too I have big stories...Are you working the steps with a sponsor? I've experienced unbelievable relief and freedom from diving on deep into the step work meetings doing everything my sponsor tells me to. I'm similar sobriety time I'm 129 days and on step 6. It's been excruciating but I've been in excruciating pain for years now so it felt like I just had to choose my hard.
Work the steps. 
For me I start in my head and swirl things around before my body / spirit takes it in if that makes sense. So with god it's not human to me. It just is. I don't see god having human traits like conditional love. It just is always there. My actions cut it off not god's. My higher power is always there and isn't upset or offended by any of my actions but when I go into overdrive trying to fix everything myself (which is a daily struggle!) I cut myself off. It's like closing my eyes when the sun is out - the sun keeps doin its thing but my closing my eyes means I don't see it...I did the work and it was almost like the changes happened without me actively driving it. I just kept being honest open minded and willing. Still am. I keep asking my sponsor and older members "what do I do when..." and the answer is so often ritualistic -- write stuff down go to meetings make phone calls help other people and talk to god. ..I hope that makes sense!
Heard a member say when drinking we're like a comet rushing through the universe dragging a million miles of debris along with us. We stop running when we get sober but for a while all that old crap continues from inertia banging into us and really beating the hell out of us while we hold firm. Eventually the bits at end of the tail come and the shitstorm stops...Took nearly 5 years for me but I may have been running from more wreckage I created while drinking than yourself. It passes deal with it and don't run...
Selfishness-self-centeredness! That we think is the root of our troubles. Driven by a hundred forms of fear self-delusion self-seeking and self-pity we step on the toes of our fellows and they retaliate. Sometimes they hurt us seemingly without provocation but we invariably find that at some time in the past we have made decisions based on self which later placed us in a position to be hurt. - page 62 of the big book. .   Don't take this the wrong way please. But this is the ballgame as far as the book Alcoholics Anonymous is concerned. Reading that super long post it's notable how many times "I" "me" or another variation of that is used. .   This is the heart and soul of step 4. Finding our part in all of this and if we legitimately have no part then refer to the top of page 67 where it instructs us to pray for those spiritually sick people (like we were) who have harmed us. .   We learn our part which is our character defects and then ask for them to be removed in step 7. .   For me it took a lot of long work with a good sponsor to do this thing... and I didn't linger at 4. The book says immediately after 3 that we "launch on a course of vigorous action". That means we get to work and get step 4 done. At the end of step 5 in the book it tells us to take just an hour or two to reflect on our previous 5 steps and then bam... we're done with 6&amp;7. This story sounds like you really need to get through this work and get this stuff behind you where it belongs. I sure hope you have the same experience I and so many others had with these steps. Relief from the bondage of self.. that's what this deal is about to me. .  Very best. 
Do you have a therapist? You said you were diagnosed PTSD but didn't mention treatment. There are tools that can help you through this.
