-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6w3gxc/hello_my_name_is_wes_and_im_a_alcoholic_ive_been/


----------immediate responses--------

I'm 33 years old and want to quit before its to late. I suffer with depression and extreme anxiety. I just want to be normal again and live happy with my family and not shame them. I am so lost I've tried numerous times to quit and I always come back to it.
And just the thought of my daughter losing me due to this addiction crushes me. Her and my wife are my soul inspirations. Without them I believe I'd drink myself to death. I also fear is it to late have I drank past the point of no return. Sorry I'm ranting so much I just have so much to say and no one to tell.
call me. PM me and I'll give u my number. Don't pick up a drink even if your ass falls off.
That's my main question how? How do I get to make myself say no. The addiction is so strong. The overall feeling that I can't have alcoholic drives me insane. 
Over and over again I'm back at this place. I see the reality of it but I still fall back into it. It's a never ending cycle.
My pains so many pains I know people have many more than myself. But I just don't know how to cope with them. I take lexapro for anxiety which already is a bad mix with alcohol. My father is a bi-polar alcoholic my mother a few years back was diagnosed at a late age with epilepsy in which I experienced her first seizure. My job which is soooooo overwhelming. I just can't find ways to cope or understand why me.
That's what brought me here tonight to find a sense of higher power. A way to learn how this Reddit may be able to overcome my battles with alcohol based off simple convo. This is something I want and want to believe in. I honestly have nowhere else to turn.
Hi Wes. We're so glad you're here! I've seen you ask how to stay stopped and from experience I can tell you that we do that one day at a time. If it's late enough my suggestion would be to just get your head to the pillow tonight without taking a drink. If you find that difficult you might be able to find an AA meeting in your area. Some of the cities I've lived in have had them as late as 11pm. Most local districts have websites with meeting schedules online. Meetings really help a lot- because we are all there for one hour to keep from drinking. There is comfort there in knowing you aren't alone. I'd suggest that whenever you're thinking about taking a drink go to a meeting instead. You'll find a connection with a higher power through honest work of the 12 steps with a sponsor- at least that was my experience and it's how the program is laid out...But for now for today just get your head to the pillow without taking a drink.  Take it one minute at a time if you have to...We're here for you.  This is the better way.  
Go to the next closest meeting tell them you can't stop drinking and need help. 
Please be honest with a doctor about how much you drink. You will probably need medication which will help you safely and more easily detox from alcohol.  Medical help is the place to start. 
Get to a doctor bro.  Now.  We will be here to help you with sobriety but get there safely first. 
To echo many of the thoughts here medical care may be required to safely get separated from physical dependency on alcohol.  We're not doctors and cannot make that call so start with a doctor or medical detox facility...Now my experience in a nut shell  ..I always felt anxious different from my peers and like my skin didn't fit.  This wasn't so bad in early life simply because it was the only state of being I knew.  When I found alcohol it did wonders for me.  It let me feel like I could finally exhale after holding my breath for so long.  It let me feel connected to others.  It let me feel free and able to communicate.  It quieted the buzzing of my over-active mind.  My skin finally fit.  Of course I wanted to drink every day!  Drinking was a revelation!  A cure to a lifelong ailment...This cure gradually started to show negative side effects however.  To make matters worse I'd been using to treat my naturally occurring mental and emotional discomfort for so long that I'd lost all tolerance to that natural uncomfortability.  What in my youth was merely unpleasant was now unbearable with my mental and emotional callouses to it gone my nerves raw.  The very thought of being without alcohol for a day was terrifying even as the alcohol had turned on me and begun to ruin my life. And to think of weeks? Months? My whole life without it?!  AAAAGGGHHHH!!!..The good news is this   When I got through the first few days (and this is much easier and safer with medical help) and started really diving into the AA program I found that I was being changed the actions and suggestions of the program.  Before long I found that the work I was doing with my sponsor the 12 Steps I was doing with his guidance was changing me into someone that wasn't riddled with anxiety fear guilt shame and remorse.  I was turning into someone who's skin actually fit.  I was a hard daily drinker that was shaking like a leaf by 11AM without a drink.  It's been 4.5 years since I got sober (at 34 years old) and I haven't wanted or craved a drink for almost the entirety of that time.  I've weathered failed relationships deaths in the family the loss of pets professional setbacks and even my mother getting cancer and I haven't needed a drink for any of it.  My anxiety and insomnia dissipated and don't take any meds for that stuff anymore. I live a full functional happy life today and I can sit alone with myself in peace...The best part was that I didn't have to figure any of it out; I just had to ask for help and follow direction without arguing my way out of it.  I'm reasonably sure that if you take the same actions you'll get similar results.  I'm guessing the beginning of our stories aren't too dissimilar so I wouldn't expect our results to be either right?..To follow my path get medical help to get separated form the booze then get to some AA meetings ask someone to sponsor you (someone that has the quality of emotional and mental peace you want for yourself) ask them to show you what they did to get it and follow those directions.  Best of luck my friend.
