-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6xbmjt/what_was_your_most_recent_drunk_dream/

Had a doozy last night in which I relapsed after 10 years on 3 glasses of red wine at my desk at work. ..Bizarre went to a meeting tonight and shared about it- feel better but I honestly can't remember the last drunk dream I had.
----------immediate responses--------

My relapse dream had to do with some as well. Funny thing is I never drank much wine when I was active. My body didn't like it. In my dream I threw up. Woke up very relieved.
I had my first one last night  actually.  I dreamt that I drove across town to a party and decided to have a beer.  As soon as I started drinking it  I noticed that all the guests were sober people I know and I was so ashamed.  I just began working the steps  and  I'm dealing with the fear that I "don't belong" in AA so I think it stems from that.  
I'm always accidentally relapsing in mine. I wake up feeling scared it was real! Eek. I read it's our subconscious' way of showing us this is something we really want and I how it would feel to stop. 
Had a long space between 18 years and 32 years without a single one then a few years ago one happened again. Thought they were all over but I was wrong and it was still hard-hitting...A lady I respect in the psych field has said having these means we don't want to drink. True for me.
I may have had one recently. After 5 years sober they are less frequent but they do occur occasionally still. The fact that I have these dreams show the pathways carved in my brain but my reaction of anxiety in the dream and relief when I wake up definitely serve as reminders why I'm still on this path. Someone around the tables once said we relapse in dreams so we don't have to in real life. 
I have been having drinking and driving dreams in cars full of my friends who support me and dont want me to drink. Lots of shame even in the dreams. I always spin out in a winter storm and get busted. Drinking neon pink rum....???
