-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6xcetc/shameful_things_you_do_while_drinking/

I'm having trouble dealing with the shameful things I've done when drinking. My issues with men trigger my drinking and I end up having unprotected sex with people I don't know being irresponsible with contraception calling or texting abuse to everyone from ex boyfriends to people I dated. The latter is worse because ex's know what I'm like people I date don't and end up hating me. I'm usually a nice person and I'm so ashamed by the things I've said. I've been drinking more and more and can go through a bottle of vodka in a day. After my last round of abuse I decided to go to AA for the first time and I've taken the first step. I'm just struggling with this shame that makes me want to drink to forget it but I know I'll do something again when I drink and the cycle forever continues. 
----------immediate responses--------

We've all got shame. I've done things I never thought I was capable of... you should get a sponsor. There's a step where our past is addressed and put to rest so we break the cycle.
Wanna know a secret? Most of the people in the room at the meeting have this problem too when they're drinking. If you get a sponsor they'll help you work through the steps and you'll be able to eventually address these shitty feelings and behaviors that feel shameful. I know it's hard to believe but one day you'll be able to move past this pain and it won't haunt you 
Hang with the sober women. They get it. ..I remember an attractive woman elementary teacher who spoke about walking into a meeting where she had slept with some of the guys. She observed one idiot whisper to his friend and point to her. They grinned and she felt ashamed. I felt ashamed that we have guys like that in AA...She hung tight with the women and has had a great sober life. Imo we get a fresh start in sobriety a chance to do things better in all areas than we did when drinking. Sober women have my respect.
&gt; I'm just struggling with this shame that makes me want to drink to forget it but I know I'll do something again when I drink and the cycle forever continues...So how are we going to break this cycle? I have an idea; if you don't drink you won't get drunk...You'll find a lot of women in AA have had very similar experiences to you and some much much worse. I am always really inspired by the women who share details of their pain of where the addictions took them to a room of strangers; it shows tremendous courage and bravery.
Luckily when you work the steps that all can go away. 
The steps of AA contain tools to deal with guilt and shame. There is nothing so bad that alcohol can't make it worse. To stop the shame I stopped drinking. I got professional help and went to AA also. 
Go to Women's Meetings. Go to a lot of them. Introduce yourself. Get a sponsor from a women's meeting. You'll start to feel relief. I am in the exact same situation as you 6 months later. Some days are bad some days are good but I am constantly amazed at how much the women's meetings have helped me. 
