-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6xdvvv/dillusional_ranting_and_a_question/

I am a heroin and meth addict. I love doing both at the same time (IV) but I will resentfully use one by itself if one of the two is unavailable. Tonight I relapsed on both after 14 days...I've been in and out of different 12 step fellowships since  2013 when a frienaddict suggested an NA meeting. ..My story: Began weed/alcohol in 03 &amp; in HS experimented every chance I got &amp; tried every type of drug. I tried meth at 15 &amp; used just about everyday for a year(give or take). I don't remember it being an intentional decision to stop but subconsciously I must've wanted to so I switched to weed/alcohol either drinking/smoking either b4 during but always after school. In college I stuck with weed&amp; used alcohol less frequently. Towards the end of school I tried a blue 30 mg Percocet (I remember my dealer telling me they didn't asprin) Over time my habit evolved  until 2 yrs later I tried heroin while I lived in NYC and began my addiction though it may have been there's b4 that. I had to move 3 times in a year &amp; 1/2 while I tried to sustain a living by selling pot. When I ran out of money I came back home&amp; started the process to become a teacher. When I came back to Texas I had access to H &amp; my old friend crystal meth reentered my life. a year later I started using both at the same time by IV. My habit increased to a .7 of H and .4 CM at the height of my addiction. I frequently pawned my music equipment stole school instruments and got payday loans to make it month to month. finally admitted and asked for my parents help Jan'15 &amp; went to treatment in June. Tried to do stop by having my parents live with me monitoring my.$ &amp; as the accountability let up I relapsed..1st rehab used mostly a clinical approach&amp;mentioned AA &amp;had meetings brought in. After that I had 6 months while cherry picking how to work my program. Since then I've  been in &amp; out for weeks/months at a time. AnotherDetox in Feb'16 &amp; most recently 3 month 12 step heavy rehab Dec'16. When I got out I got a sponsor got service commitments &amp; worked the steps the best I could until July... My question refers to the self diagnosis as an addict. I've kinda tried church working out trying to stay busy as possible and codependency as defenses. I've always come back to 12 step fellowships because I like aspects of the program &amp; the wide spectrum of personalities...From what I've heard in my time in the rooms my bottoms are high. At my best during my.addiction I (bearly) graduated Berklee College of Music played in bands have had a fun job as a teacher for the last 5 yrs. Never had been to jail and never "overdosed" to the point of hosptalization. I have been asked to resign at the end of school 3 out of the last 4 years I've taught. have been financially broke evicted from an apartment due to 911 calls from panic attacks I've had b/c with no food and and very little sleep. I tend to quit bc of $ or being scared of overdosing/dying of heart arrhythmia or something. When I use I try to use little amounts so I don't die but use up to 6 times a day (.1/.2 at a time) and at points not cared whether I lived or died though I'm still scared to. ..Am I an addict or just a hard user???..I go to 12 step meetings and do the work with a sponsor because I feel like it's the "right" thing to do but don't feel 100% bought in and I'm doing it bc I was living the wrong life with drugs. When I do the deal I try 2 do it so perfect &amp; 2 the best of my ability but I tend to overanalyze every aspect of my program &amp; detail of my life. Like I should do this or shouldn't do that because I'm in recovery/ living a new way of.Life. I have a difficulty connecting to others after meetings &amp; when I hear about people's bottoms my mind tells me I'm not addict but that I use addictive drugs but I almost always end up getting scared of death or just sick of needing to use that I say fuck using. When I do connect to people I tend to agree&amp;adapt myself to please them. I have ?s about sponsors &amp; get so many different opinions/feedback that Idk how 2 proceed &amp; what's right for.. .sorry this is so long. If u have anything 2 say even it's just "fuck off take this to another sub" or "fuck you just work the steps stop questioning it when it doesn't make everything perfect all the time."
----------immediate responses--------

I hear a lot of really good things about NA. I can't identify with the .1/.2 thing my problem was the opposite of that a frequent loss of control and an inability to regulate amounts I drank. Think we're coming from different places. ..They are more likely to fully understand you.
I'll just share my experience with NA which was fairly limited and when I was much younger. I liked the fellowship in general and the people but I always felt compared to AA there was a bit of a lax attitude. It seemed there was constantly people relapsing going out and coming back in and it wasn't really viewed with the gravity that I saw in AA. My sponsor (who was cross-addicted heroin and meth addict as well) calls NA *No Anniversaries* a knock on the lack of long-term sobriety in the NA rooms. Again this has just been my own experience and NA has obviously helped many people. The groups I went to also seemed preoccupied with feeling ostracized from AA something which I have never experienced. I have never seen AA people be upset that someone was talking about drugs at a meeting; almost everyone I know in AA had some type of other substance abuse and even those that don't understand the concept that addiction to drugs is more or less the same as alcoholism. ..&gt; Am I an addict or just a hard user???..Does it really matter? It seems you've had a lot of really negative things in your life due to your drug use. I'm not even really sure what the difference is. Are you asking if you can moderate and be a "normal" user? Maybe; give it a try and see what happens. I don't know anyone who can IV inject heroin and meth in moderation. If you're asking if you can drink in moderation again I don't know. Its generally frowned upon but I have known people who were addicted to heroin/painkillers when they were younger who drink or smoke pot in moderation. Relatively their use was very mild compared to what you've shared but it happens...&gt; When I do the deal I try 2 do it so perfect &amp; 2 the best of my ability but I tend to overanalyze every aspect of my program &amp; detail of my life. Like I should do this or shouldn't do that because I'm in recovery/ living a new way of Life...There's really no "right" or "perfect" way to do recovery; everything after "don't drink/don't use" is just a suggestion. I know plenty of people who have wildly different lives and values outside of the program but are united by their common problem (addiction) and their efforts towards a common solution (sobriety/abstinence). 
Addiction is continuing in the face of consequences. If your use is causing any kind of consequences in your life and you won't or can't stop that is addiction. 
Just take it one day at a time. Try to relate even if it's only a little.  
NA. 
"Delusional" for sure. Deep denial. 
Just going to share my experience and a little advice. Take it or leave it. ..I'm also an ex iv heroin user and AA has always felt like the right place for me. Well not always from my own convincing. But the idea is the addiction. I never met an IV drug user who could use in moderation. I don't think that exists. Perhaps you're the one in a million but I highly doubt that seeing your short synopsis of your life. I had a hard time convincing myself I needed AA this last time I came back because I has a good job money in the bank a car all things I didn't have when I first came in. But I know that just because I'm able to control my drinking does not mean I enjoy it and when I enjoy it I'm not controlling it. If that makes sense to you.. ..I think if you show up and try it for just 3 months you'll see something that you relate with. Even one month. But it's easy to feel like you don't fit in. Most people I know in AA have a problem with themselves and the drugs and alcohol were their solution. I think focusing too much on the specific type of solution we each had is fruitless and doesn't bring any kind of relief. ..I have tried NA and it's not as structured as AA. It feels all over the place and like nobody is as dedicated to the program as AA. AA feels like a shiny classic car while NA is a beat up scooter. I couldn't relate to anyone there because I felt that my bottoms weren't as low as theirs. Seems like your problem with AA but I guess I just felt out of place there. Maybe you'll find what you're looking for in NA but you won't know unless you go to a few meetings and talk to people. 
Thank you guys for reading and responding.
Someone told me something that made sense to me.  There is no such thing as a "social" IV meth. and heroin user.  Questions about being an addict seem to be confounding your recovery.  Best wishes to you in moving from the problem into the solution.
