-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6xgkr8/why_wont_you_tell_people_the_true_history_of_bill/

I'm sure i'll be banned immediately with no response just like in the groups for mentioning these true "heresies" and probably have my post deleted to prevent others from seeing it. but I don't care... ..even if you disagree with me entirely and fully believe in the things you say (which btw never helped me I had to help myself and use all the most unsanctioned evil methods to get off and stay off as far as you are concerned but it WORKED and therefore I am right. period)..even if you believe these things in the age of the internet you are doing more harm to yourselves and your organization by making up statistics and lying blatantly about the creation and initial organization of the group...why cant you tell people bill Wilson was A.) a bad man and a liar who embezzled money and took advantage of downtrodden addicted women in the groups sexually..and B.) was one of the first MAJOR success stories of LSD treatment of addiction in the 60s...these are all historically provable verifiable facts. whether you like them or not...theres a lot more like relapse rates underreporting or lying in the groups and more...also this belief of not allowing people to ease their symptoms with things that work (I agree with you on suboxone the shit is more evil than heroin but there are OTHER methods involving pot DXM ibogaine memantine and more that have high potential to help people if properly researched and applied in a controlled clinical setting.. too bad its illegal to do so and where it isn't pharmaceutical co's don't want to because it would lose billions in profit to actually cure people and spend money to research plant based substances that cannot be patented.)..I was my own test-dummy. I came from a background of bucket chemistry and DIY. I was highly intelligent believe in freedom the constitution and philosophy...I don't think drug court helps anyone only harms them. I don't think your organization helps many people (maybe some)...and I think that being honest about your origin and the potentials of ACTUAL science to help people rather than pseudoscience and fake history bullshit would do more to get and keep people off than anything else...we live in a new age where religion has little control over people and almost nobody can be helped by a 'higher power'. methodologies like SMART have been proven 100% more effective with lower lifelong relapse rates because of harm reduction rather than moral obsession...the fact that your methods are gov't approved damns the entire rehabilitation system to be nothing more than a Ponzi scheme that involves imprisonment and loss of rights helps feed the private prison industry and also creates a lucrative market in rehabs that don't actually get people off drugs in the long or short term merely replacing them with government sanctioned drugs and a belief in powerlessness that often leads to hopelessness despair and relapses that are worse than just one tiny mistake but end up with the 'fuck its' and binges...what we actually need is government supported (like welfare based not profit based) one time treatment methodologies that are in/out and do not base themselves on repeat customers for profit...and your dishonesty/coverup of the things I mentioned which will probably get me banned from this subreddit and WILL get you kicked out of the groups/rehabs for even MENTIONING (because its true and if people read up on it they will leave in DROVES and lose any/all faith in you)..this dishonesty only serves to work against you and get more people to leave as the internet becomes more common and it becomes easier to get that information and harder to keep it away from people in halfway houses etc who can sneak in phones and shit...tell the damn truth regardless of whether if benefits you...you might find that the more truth you tell the more people actually find a way that works for them to quit drugs that hurt them even if they don't quit everything and don't become one of you...because nobody is ever perfect but that doesn't mean we cannot become better...that does not mean your way is the only way and the gold standard for everyone...and right now your helping to demonize the very things that created your own group that helped the first man quit. Your obviously anti-science... we need methodologies this new age can morally identify with so that way they DO have the faith and strength to quit which you can no longer provide to everyone and its arguable if you ever did to begin with once it was organized and the truth tellers were gone leaving a socially acceptable and sterilized organization in its wake...and this can be seen in your main competitor NarcAnon -- which is ran directly by scientology kooks..
----------immediate responses--------

&gt; it WORKED and therefore I am right. period..Well millions have used Bill's methods (a historically provable verifiable fact) which from the start were developed to be personally adaptable to any belief structure to help themselves. So **they are right period**. Your professed method of logic has rendered everything else you have to say moot as there is no room for debate when you feel your personal experiences make for an incontrovertible fact...So bye bye now. Sorry you wasted time writing a useless wall of rambling text that you rendered invalid with your second paragraph...- Signed *A non-spiritual anti-religion atheistic leaning agnostic who staunchly believes in the scientific method*
You've got a lot of time to bash others' beliefs. If it works for them leave it alone. Do something else with your time. 
Helping is commendable. I just don't understand why you would seek out an AA sub Reddit to spread distrust and slander. 
You're not helping by trying to convert people visiting an AA subreddit. If you want to support your methods by all means support away. Why destroy others though ? Why spread negativity?  You say you found a solution but clearly you're in a negative place. I'll stick with fellowship and spirituality regardless of your sketchy historical counts. 
:yawn: ..If you actually had solid time behind you I'd maybe kinda give a shit what you had to say but you're only 3 + weeks clean off Kratom. Not much of a solution there man.
To don't know what you're talking about. Go somewhere else to fill your needs man. Or come to my home group with this nonsense. You will be quickly schooled at m what AA really is. You don't know shit. Absolutely don't know what you're talking about. 
So do you feel better now that you've gotten that off your chest? Or were you hoping for more angry arguing with people?
Thanks for sharing. Hope you find an answer to your difficulties that works as well for you as AA has for me. Keep searching despite the level of unhappiness you continue to cause yourself along the way...If it makes it better to blame AA as you suffer go ahead and do that as often as you require it. Much easier than blaming the individual in our mirror. ..The next time you find yourself very very sick show up here and tell us how that ol' bad AA has made you feel horrible yet again. Insist that they stop doing that to you. 
Principles over personalties. AA doesn't go out an tell anyone what is right or wrong. It's an organization setup to help. ..Go read the orange papers if you want an echo chamber.  
You are sure you will be "banned immediately with no response" and "probably have my post deleted".  What else do you "know" that you are dead wrong about?
Profile does not check out.  One hour later OP posted..&gt; I can drink after opioids because I hate alcohol to begin with and only enjoy it as 1-2 beers or wines with a meal once every few months.....but I never get drunk because I hate being drunk lol...Just a troll.
Yeah dude. Get fucked...If bill wilson is a douche in your opinion then fine...But his program works for me. Period...If you came here for any sort of support these comments would be going a lot differently...I just thank my higher power that i didnt read your post all the way through...God bless...Kratom bless...Lsd bless...Whatever works for you (period)
I just came back to AA after a few years back out and I actually believe a lot of the stuff you're talking about.  A lot of what you have said is undeniable fact.  My thing is that AA is the only thing I have ever found that keeps ME sober.  If something else works for you do it!!  ..There's a part in the big book that says if you're not sure you're an alcoholic go out and try again to drink successfully.  There are also parts that talk about how other methods of sobriety worked for other people just not for the founding members.  They were fine with that!  ..I agree that the spirit of the program is not like it was back when it started but at the same time there are still those in the program who explore the same ideas you are and they're staying sober doing it.  One should be able to question anything about any organization they belong to without fear of being ostracized or shamed.  ..Basically what I'm saying is do what works for you.  If you go to AA find the people that promote the program not the culture.  AA has become a way of life for many people but it wasn't intended to be that way.  It was intended to help people learn to live life without alcohol and some people decided to take that further and make it a lifestyle.  You don't have to be one of them and neither do I.  Whatever you do good luck to you and your recovery.  I don't care how your life gets better I just hope it gets better!!
