-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6xi47k/im_going_to_relapse_tonight/

I'm struggling hard right now. I've already got the alcohol. Haven't drank any. But it's killing me. I want it so badly. Someone have any advice??? I know I'm going to regret it in the morning. 
----------immediate responses--------

You should give that decision a second thought my friend 
Do you have a sponsor or friends on the program you can call?..Is there a meeting you can get to ASAP?..Where are you at on your stepwork?  Can you work on that?..Have you tried meditating?  I love the "headspace" app...Can you go exercise?  Even just going for a walk in nature can be a big help for me...
Victory over alcohol starts tonight .
If you believe you are an alcoholic you probably agree that it will never be safe for you to drink again. This isn't going to fix anything but it will most definitely make it worse. Plus if you know that it isn't a great solution for you it really ruins the temporary relief that used to be felt and all you can hope for with it is oblivion. ..There are better solutions. Read the book call a friend get to a meeting reach out to your higher power. One thing at a time one decision at a time work yourself towards the right decision for you. I think we both know that doesn't include the drink. Good luck my friend. 
There is nothing so bad that alcohol can't make it worse. ..Go to a meeting. Talk to someone. Think it forward. I didn't want the misery that drinking brought me; it helped me not take the first drink. 
Sounds like you've made up your mind. ..We'll be here for when you're ready. 
My brain often has me convinced that the way I feel right now is how I will feel forever. This is categorically false. ..Any of the suggestions here will work and are the same suggestions you'll here at any and every meeting. Pray and meditate go to a meeting and introduce yourself to a newcomer call another alcoholic and ask them how their day is going etc etc.....You are exactly where your higher power wants you to be right now. All the best my friend.
Hiya thanks for sharing. I have been in a similar position. Luckily I did something similar. I reached out to another person that really understood our disease. We talked and I ended up getting out of my house out of my head and going to hang out with other sober people. There is something about being honest about our disesase with another person that supercharges one's spirit...That old adage is really true: I get drunk we stay sober. If you can't get to a meeting go hang out in /r/stopdrinking and share your experience with other people who are suffering. There is nothing better for one's sobriety than helping someone else...Congratulations for sharing and being honest. 
Advice? Pour it out. Call someone have them come over and pour it out. Don't drink tonight. Maybe tomorrow. Not tonight. Whatever you're going through will NOT get better with a drink and it WILL still be there tomorrow. 
I'm sorry you're struggling my friend...Our alcoholic minds will make up anything to get us to drink again. The most important thing is to connect in to your higher power- ask them for help. God the universe whatever just talk to your version of god out loud and ask for their help...Then make phone calls to people on the program. Hear real people voices and tell them about your emotions around how you're feeling. Ask them for help support advice. Ask them what they did...Read the big book or any spiritual text. Listen to speakers online: this site has good ones http://www.xa-speakers.org/..Finally get to a meeting. Hopefully there are Ines close to you try your best. There are online meetings regularly too. And reaching out here was an amazing step good on you! No one writes a post like this if they calmly genuinely want to drink - you're reaching out in pain my friend which is a huge step...I know you posted this an hour ago and I hope you're ok. A few months ago I flushed drugs down the toilet while on the phone to an older sober member as I was feeling uncomfortable and tempted with them in the house. Felt scary but empowering especially with her talking me through it...I hope you're ok :)
Since you asked for advice. I think I have some that's good... POOR IT DOWN THE DRAIN
Hey thanks for the support. I'm afraid I've already had some. However I know this will sound terrible at first. But I feel confident that eventually I'll be able to remain sober. A lot of tips say if you can't go cold turkey cut it down slowly. I was thinking something like one 375ml bottle a month. I believe I can handle that. It'll put things into perspective for me as something that's "manageable". Any thoughts? Again I get it if you think I'm insane. 
Get your ass up and get to a meeting. Any meeting just go. I find that if I go to a meeting when I don't want to especially when I don't want to it's always just what I need. As much as I hate all the cheesy sayings they work. Before you pick up that bottle remember one drink is too many and a thousand isn't enough. If you have a sponsor call them now and tell them to pick you up for a meeting.
Yea man I just relapsed. I was gonna celebrate 2 yrs on August 22..Now I can't stop. Jumped right back in with both feet..Don't do it. If you can. Don't do it
Call someone.
Finally someone else who wants to relapse. I've wanted to relapse since the day I quit and that was over 4 years ago.  ..I'm an alcoholic. And alcoholics crave alcohol. We're obsessed by the stuff. I am not the type of alcoholic that deludes myself into thinking I can handle a beer or two nope. I want a ton of the stuff. I want to drink myself into a puking blackout.  ..That craving is magnetic and will never go away entirely. I accept that.  ..So how did I manage to stay sober for over 1600 days?  ..First of all over anything I have to keep my program of recovery bigger than my craving. That's it. Whenever I feel like the disease is gaining traction I have to put some effort some work into my program or I risk getting run down by the demon that never stops chasing me.  ..You know what "work" is? It's something you do because you want the results of the work more than you don't want to do it. I don't want to get up at 6:30 every morning and drag my weary ass out the door but I do it because I want the money from being employed MORE than I want to sleep in.  ..So when that sonofabitch of a disease starts breathing down my neck I do some work. The most effective work is to engage with another alcoholic either I pick up the phone or I post online. Or I log into the StopDrinking chat room. This makes my recovery bigger than my disease. And it's work I don't always want to do it.  ..Because I WANT the stability my sobriety has brought me. I want the feeling of having a little extra cash in my pocket. I want to remain confident that I know where my car is parked. I want to wake up tomorrow clear-headed and rested and not have to reach for my phone dreading to read my text history from tonight. I want the respect of my family my colleagues in recovery my employer and more than all of those myself.  ..I want to relapse. But I want *not* to relapse more. My credibility my self-respect my stability....it's not for sale at the price of a few drinks.  ..is yours?  ..Do what you gotta do champ. Give in and swallow or get up and fight. The hard part is *deciding*. Once you decide the rest is easy all you need to do is log into the chat or pick up the phone and any of the legions of alcoholics out there will stand with you in this fight.  ..You want this craving off your back? You're going to have to fight for it you're going to have to work for it. The very best way to do it is to either help another alcoholic or to accept the help of one.  ..I'm doing exactly that right now by typing this reply to your post.  ..And now I don't feel like relapsing so much anymore. Thank you for reaching out and allowing me the opportunity to strengthen my recovery I am very grateful that you did.
That was a good read man. I'm glad you've managed to stay sober 
Come back when you can (may not be when you want) and stay as safe as is possible.
I would call my sponsor and talk about what was bothering me.  If it was just a craving from withdrawal he would tell me to lose the booze and do something productive until the temporary urge passed along.  If life was troubling me we would talk about specifics until they were right sized.
Put it off until tomorrow. If you feel the same way tomorrow as you do today then do it.
Lately my thoughts have turned to getting drunk. After 4 years and no progress with a family member I wonder what is the point?..The point is that there is nothing so bad sad or awful that would make me actually take that drink and if I don't take that first drink I will be clear headed and able to make good decisions. No longer do I find myself in line at the liquor store with no defense against it. No longer do I have to eat a bag of mints to keep my boozy breath from killing people I would talk to. ..Yep I may be a lone and sad sometimes but I can be honest about what I have been doing and have a clear conscience. ..I hope the next post will be titled "I didn't have to drink after all"
