-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6xk9tl/no_desire_to_drink_but_wow_are_the_people_around/

I have tried my best to change my lifestyle since January I stopped going to bars I stopped buying alcohol and I don't hangout with literally anyone anymore. I just keep to myself go to work and hangout with my young nieces. My parents however still treat me like I'm 16 and try putting a "curfew" on me of 10pm. And if I'm not home by 10 the harassing phone calls come pouring in. At 24 about to be 25 all I want is to be able to just hangout with my friends after working 40 hours a week but I can't. My parents want me to stay within eye sight or be at the gym. Which is understandable after my 3 years of struggling with my drinking. But today after work I decide to go watch a movie and have pizza with a friend. When I got home at 11:15 after they blew my phone up demanding I get home my mom SNIFFED me when I got home and accused me of being drunk. MIGHT AS WELL DRINK IF NO ONE BELIEVES IM BEING SOBER.  
----------immediate responses--------

They are probably just scared and their lack of knowing for sure comes out in the form of scolding you. I go through the same thing. Just stay calm .. look them in the eye and tell them your sober. As far as curfew goes if you can't afford your own place try to bargain with them to come up with a plan both sides are happy with. I hope your days get better friend 
The big book mentions this exact scenario. Best to read up.
Have you written inventory and made amends as written in the big book? I have 23 years of sobriety and it wasn't until my daughter followed my footsteps that i truly understood what my mother meant when she said "Everytime you left the house I started to plan your funeral". ..TL:DR they probably care and are worried.. 
Why aren't you living on your own ?
Is the condition of living at your parents house having a curfew? Have you sat down and had a honest conversation to discuss these terms or possibly adjust them?.
Stopped buying alcohol going to bars and hanging out with anyone.  I guess those are ok.  ..But I don't see where you did a 4th step or a 5th step or an 8th or a 9th or 10th or 11...Those are the steps that will help you not be bothered by others and help others build trust back in you.  
How long have you been sober? It took almost two years for my mom to stop waiting up for me. Years of thinking I was going to die every time I went out didn't get erased quickly or easily. I completely obliterated any reason she had to trust me. Have you discussed this with your sponsor specifically while working Steps 4/5/8/9?
Sorry your mom sniffed you. For the first months my ex would give me a welcome home kiss when I returned from meetings and the coffee shop after the meetings and I notice she ended those with a sniff for booze and/or other women's scents. I would have been indignant had I not given her an overabundance of good reasons to do that during the 7 years she had known me...But I was finally doing a lot to stay sober. I'd been sober before for short periods but I wasn't 'being sober' this time in the same way I would earlier have periods of 'being good'. The word choice of 'being (something)' implies that it's temporary and only pretense without a commitment that makes it real or lasting or a part of who I am how I see myself. I have been being a plumber and to help a friend I was being a carpenter recently-but I'm not either of those.....
I'm sorry you have to deal with over-zealous parents. They are just scared to death you are going to drink again. Anything you can do so they aren't scared would be in your best interest. .Call them. Let them know where you are. ..I do hope you have a support system such as a therapist and AA. ..Maybe it is time to move out on your own. 
I feel for you brother. I just turned 25 have been sober for 2.5 years and my mother will still hound me about where I am at all times and who I'm with. It is part of what I did to her while I was out there. She has serious anxiety about it and I try to be calm with her even when it makes me furious. I call a sponsor or talk to my higher power. The lies I told and the deception of my drinking days are not a part of my life today so when it's necessary I tell her where I'm going and when I'll be back as much as it kills me and I wish she would just get a life. I encourage her to foto Al-Anon. Maybe that would help your parents?
I feel your pain. I have 7 years and still live with my parents. Relationships can and do change. Work the program and enjoy your life. 
