-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6xrev5/my_sponsor_relapsed/

She started last April and I've just been pretending it didn't happen. Two weeks ago she showed up at a meeting wasted. No one noticed?  I did. I called her on it- I said "I love you and. Can tell you're fucked up." She lied. "No I'm not." She didn't tell her sponsor. She even chaired a couple nights later. She told me "thank you  for what you did. I was taking diet pills. I didn't have any business doing that. I wasn't drinking." At this point you can't walk in a straight line so who cares why? This woman has been dedicated to aa service work her big book her sponsor and her sponsors. Last night her husband called. "She needs help.  I need someone to come over." I've got 6 months sobriety. Seeing her like that was terrible but I was glad I was there and so was her sponsor. We all agreed to go to a noon mtg. I've relapsed constantly since I came in in 2014 and I thought well the worst is over. It'll be hard in her family and on her but she's stopping and we're on the road to redemption. I met them at the mtg today and she's STILL fucked up- the worst part is she's trying to play it off. Really? Spilled coffee talking guzzling water. I just want to shake her. I know I can't. Meanwhile I've had no sponsor since May and I'm really on the fence as to how honest I should be with her or if I should just disappear until she's better. This is not an AA acquaintance. This is my best friend in AA taught me how to get sober how to pray and how to keep coming back. 
----------immediate responses--------

Get a temporary sponsor within the next two days. It doesn't have to be the perfect sponsor just someone to call your acting sponsor that you can run AA stuff past. It's OK if the relapsing person is your current sponsor but she's not your active sponsor right now. ..You're going to be OK. I've had sponsors fire me and I've had sponsors die unexpectedly. It's horrible but you do not have to do anything rash or dramatically change your AA program. ..Even if she's not you're going to be OK. 
Bill W. was six month sober when he met Dr Bob in Akron carried the message to him and they then carried the message to Bill Dodson "The man on the bed" and AA was formed. But shortly after Bill W. returned to New York and found that the man who had carried the message to him (Ebby T.) was drunk...Bill W. considered Ebby T. to be his sponsor for the rest of his life even though Ebby didn't sober up until years later he was forever turning up at Bill and Lois's house drunk but he was 5 years sober when he died...I have little contact with my sponsor now - I've moved away but he'll always be my sponsor for as long as he and I shall live. In the book "Living Sober" the chapter on sponsorship talks about AA members flying the nest - we are supposed to rely on the infinite power of God not to be dependant on frail human sponsors for the rest of our lives. What keeps me sober is me passing the message on to others - just like Bill W. did when he was barely six months dry...Keep praying and I'll pray for you and your sponsor too. That's all we can do - the rest is in God's hands. 
Thank you. Just need to do it. 
Get a new sponsor and offer to take her through the steps. 
Just know that at no time during your sobriety will any amount of time you have qualify you to drink again. Why do I say this? Because being shocked that your sponsor drank again leads me to believe that you thought she was immune. Sponsors are not a higher power. They are people with recovery experience. That's it.
Thanks. I'm not shocked. I am having trouble deciding whether I'd should call her/ help or step aside. But I appreciate the response. Im grateful I'm not in her shoes today. 
Got a sponsor yesterday. Called her last. Ugly and we are meeting on Thursday :)
Time for a new sponsor.  Not a temporary one.  You don't need to make a snap decision though.  Get some phone numbers of some people with time. Call them just to check in so you have someone to lean on.  THEN start searching for a sponsor.  Bring up the topic of sponsorship at meetings perhaps "What to look for in a sponsor" or "What is the best way to sponsor someone?"  Try to make it a tag meeting or a "call-on" meeting.  Anybody who volunteers to tell you about sponsorship isn't anyone I would want as a sponsor.  ..By the way you aren't responsible for your drunk sponsor's sobriety. Think about it like a shipwreck.  If you are in a lifeboat and some moron jumps out you have no responsibility to jump back in the water to save them.  There are plenty of stronger people who can pull the "jumper" back in.
