-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6yweu6/shame_of_relapse/

I relapsed and I am too scared to go back to my meeting on Sunday. In terms of how bad it was - not too bad (considering how it used to be) finished half a bottle of Rum but got up and got to work and all that. ..I am scared of what they will say. They know because I called 3 of them - the closest ones to me - and told them. They didnt say anything bad but still... They know...Just feel like my whole walk to the meeting will feel like in Game of Thrones when cercei had to go naked down the roads and have that creep woman ring the bell and say Shame all the time. ..Felt like that today. ..Feel week. Cant sleep. Cant move. Cant think. ..My first failure since I went sober. ..UPDATE: Went to a meeting. Cried like a child and apologized to every single person in the room. EVERY SINGLE PERSON hugged me and inspired me to continue and not give up ever. I am sober. I will stay sober until I fall and if and when I do - I have a sickness and it is OK. AA is the place of love and compassion. I literally love you all right now. HUGS!
----------immediate responses--------

They all did it too and they'll be glad to see you there. 
This analogy is spot on with GoT!! However this is not true! This is just your perception. A relapse is not a failure it's just another experience in your book of what to do differently. I recently slipped and had a few drinks for the mcgregor fight at a party. I hadnt has a sip of alchohol in over 3 years but heroin was my DoC and I was 7 months clean from everything before the fight. I told my sponsor and got honest with a lot of my sober support. It was well worth it  a huge weight was lifted off my shoulders and now I'm back into action helping newcomers and making amends. Best bet is to NOT beat yourself up! We addicts and alchoholics always beat ourselves up a relapse is perfectly normal. Most people experience a few relapses before they remain truly sober...- Josh 22 PA
You've got to shake that off. If AA was working for you you shouldn't stop going...As they say keep coming back. 
Try to think of it this way- if you're honest to the group about what happened what was going through your head leading up to the relapse it will help them too.  The other members either have relapsed themselves and know exactly what you're going through or they haven't- yet.  And your story could help them b prevent that in the future. Good luck! 
Please go back. The most important thing is to learn from a relapse. You did more research. You are one of the lucky ones who has chance to continue your recovery journey. You are not a failure. This just shows the power of alcohol. ..In my experience you will be welcomed with open arms. Many folks in AA have relapsed. Hold your head high and show up. ..Thanks for your brave post. 
Just because you relapsed doesn't mean you gave up. The fact that you are concerned shows that you want to get better. Go to that meeting prove to yourself that you can do this. Don't let a relapse get you down. This is hard but you got this
Not once in 11 years have I ever seen a single person in an AA meeting shamed in any way for coming back. Not one single time. In fact I see the opposite. I saw it last night at my home group. There were 3 men back last night who have been out for a time... they were welcomed given phone lists and encouraged to keep at it. I've spoken to one of them already today.. that's what AA meetings are about. If all who relapsed weren't welcomed back we could hold meetings in a closet. .  Keep at it. 
You are far from the first or the last. I relapsed recently and I took a couple days to feel sorry for myself then got back to work. We are in a vulnerable place right now and are in danger of drinking again so I'm going to try working my program extra diligently for the next couple months. 
Think of the lives you may save with your experience.   You are not alone.
Think this over...few of your group came in and stayed sober from square one. This makes you more like most of us not less. Those members you are connecting with understand what this is like for you from their experience. Note one important difference-they came back and applied themselves harder to be there when you showed up. ..Do the same so you can be there for the women who need you down the road. It's no longer all about you.
I will keep my history brief...I had a bad history involving 2 DWI's etc...etc...I belong in the rooms. So I went. It wasn't easy but I got 9+ years of sobriety...there were many road bumps at the start. I tried and tried again and failed and failed again until I didn't fail any more. I felt like I could never give it up that is until I did. And for 9+ years I never had to worry about hiding or lying or regretting much of anything. I never got sick and I rarely ever missed work or an appointment...I even lost 50 lbs and I was in the greatest health of my life even in my late 30s. But then I relapsed. Hard. And I stayed out there for almost 3 years before I finally had an incident  that landed me in the emergency room and threatened to tear apart the little family I had built...And that's when I came back into the rooms only a couple months ago now. From the time I went back into the rooms I was welcomed with open arms. I've fallen down and drank 4 or 5 times now even since I went back to the program and I'm still struggling today. But I always fess up and always talk to others and just 2 days ago a good new friend of mine told me that he respected me even more not less for coming back even after I had slipped. It's easy to walk in the doors when you're bush tailed bright eyed and clear minded. Not so much when you're hung over depressed and guilt-ridden from a bender the night before. But I start to realize now...the guilt is good. Before I started coming back to the rooms and talking to folks there was no guilt...because I had nobody to disappoint nobody who I thought understood me who I'd be letting down. I didn't give a shit. I haven't been able to string together more than 2 weeks or 10 days or so since I came back but it's a hell of a lot better than the 3 or 4 nights a week I was drinking unto oblivion before....And it gets a bit easier day after day. The more I go to meetings and MEET PEOPLE and talk and share and listen....the more bonds I start to feel and the easier it starts to get to say no...I want to get back to the place I was before where it's almost as if I had forgotten that alcohol even existed...It was a non-factor in my life for many years before now and I hope and pray I can get back there again. Even though I fell I'll always have that knowledge and past experience. I am in no position right now to preach to anybody but I have experienced the sober life and it is so far superior to the way I'm living right now...
For me secrets are a really big deal. They are keepers of guilt and shame. Not only are they keepers but they are also nurturers and protectors of guilt and shame. Even though you told a few people its not the same as telling in a meeting. For me if I pick and choose who I am honest with then that is the beginning of isolation. My disease mainly wants to get me alone so it can kill me. There are steps to get recovery and also steps to relapse. Yours sounds to me somewhere btwn slip and relapse. You know what to do! I love you thank you for listening!
you're there to save your ass.not your face..
I'm still under a year in the program and anytime I hear someone talk about slipping or relapsing and coming back I have so much respect for them. It's such an inspiration to see such honesty and courage and people willing to put their program ahead of their ego. 
My experiences good and bad can be helpful to others.  The disease is cunning and is uses our ego to try to isolate us from the group.  Sounds like you overcame the ego thing called shame and helped a lot of people.  Way to go!
Today is a new day and a great day to tackle the steps 
