-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6yz6bp/stuck_yet_again/

So I've gotten myself into a pickle yet again. I've been clean from opiates since February and had a bit of time where I was totally sober. However a few months ago I managed to convince myself that it was okay to get hammered one night when I was really struggling emotionally. After that it started happening every 2 weeks or so.  Every time I'd drink I'd be absolutely fucking horrified I did it again and desperately resolve myself not to drink again and then hit meetings for a few days. Inevitably it started getting hard to get myself to go to meetings and my willingness to do the work would fade in a few days. ..Cut to a week ago haven't drank in maybe 2 or 3 weeks. I end up with a little bit of weed and smoked it over a 4 day period. Each time I did I would be met with earth shattering anxiety and it would become absolutely crystal clear how fucked I am and how badly I've been messing up lately. How I've been playing with fire given my history of drug use binge drinking and rehabs. I would be absolutely miserable horrified with myself resolve to quit and get with a sponsor the next day and would sometimes even wake up with that same resolve to get back into AA. Then at some point in the day I completely convince myself to do it again. It's happened so many times now that I pretty much just know it's going to happen and can do nothing to stop it. The resolve to stay sober just fizzles out until I get fucked up which it then comes back...Yesterday I had thrown out everything that I had left and hit a meeting leaving it feeling pretty good about things and like I could stay sober that night. Some time after I got home I found myself asking for a little bit of weed from somebody I know. Went back home again and proceeded to absolutely freak out over the fact that it happened again. And guess what? The same exact thing happened again two hours ago. This is the same thing that happened when I tried to stop opiates in the past and here it is happening again with something as "harmless" as weed. Well shit....I have a full awareness of the fact that I'm an alcoholic and an addict. I also have a great deal of faith that the program will work for me and am absolutely desperate for it to work because if it doesn't I'm going to die an addicts death. I just don't know how to make it through the first few days while I begin going through the steps. I met with a sponsor today and he's ready to start taking me through the work again but now I'm not entirely sure I'll be able to stay sober long enough to make that happen.
----------immediate responses--------

Why didn't you call your sponsor before you smoked? ..The bright side is it must be apparent to you at this point that you are powerless. The next two steps can be a breeze too if you can muster some faith which you stated you have faith in the program. So I what I'm thinking is you need to ask your higher power to do for you what you cannot do for yourself. Pray for resolve in the moment in which you are thinking about using and that may be something you need to do many times from one moment to the next. ..There is nothing else you can do but pray and call your sponsor. ..
Why didn't you call your sponsor before you smoked? ..The bright side is it must be apparent to you at this point that you are powerless. The next two steps can be a breeze too if you can muster some faith which you stated you have faith in the program. So I what I'm thinking is you need to ask your higher power to do for you what you cannot do for yourself. Pray for resolve in the moment in which you are thinking about using and that may be something you need to do many times from one moment to the next. ..There is nothing else you can do but pray and call your sponsor. ..
When I would get in cycles like that the only thing that worked was getting completely and totally honest about it. And it was always worse in my head. Shine a light on that fear and shame and dishonesty and you will be amazed. Good luck. 
I had to concede to my inner most self that I was an alcoholic. That is step one. If that is true then to ever drink again is suicide. Fast or slow take your pic. If I drink again I'm a goner. That means that drinking is just flat out off the table for me. I don't drink no matter what. The steps help me to be ok so that I'm farther away from whatever it might have been that made me fri k over and over before step one. .    You sound to me like you have a first step issue. If you didn't you wouldn't even consider it. If it were me I'd write out a first step. Why am I powerless? Why is my life unmanageable? And I'd do a timeline of my drinking and my memorable life problems. You look at mine?? No question I'm an alcoholic. I'd also try absolute sobriety. No weed. Smoking weird is not at all sober to me. And if I'm high? My higher power is now drugs... no way the steps can work for me under those conditions. .  Step one man. Good luck to you. 
I didn't know and I didn't accept to for a long time - that I am *mentally and bodily sick*. ..If I have a cough or flu do I feel guilt shame sad and confused about it? No. Then should I feel guilty ashamed sad or confused about relapsing? No again. It's just the sickness. ..What it means though is that I did not do the right treatment for the sickness at the right strength...Did you do your 90 meetings 90 days? Did you pick a sponsor you have to obey? Have you been doing your step work? ..12 Steps and service to other addicts is the treatment for our sickness. ..I hope this helps.
You have to pile up more victorious nights of not seeking out anything to escape life. Face life  clean. Pile some days up. Get empowered over your victories . Try to  stay clean and sober 5 days  6 days  etc. 
Didn't read anything here that makes you special. If we can do it you can do it.
Your post captures the essence of powerless over alcohol and drugs.  Step 1 is done as soon as you admit it.  A sponsor helped me move through Steps 2 and 3 where I made a decision.  The decision to stop drinking and using made all the difference.  Best wishes to you in moving through these as soon as possible.
