-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6za19q/81_days_clean_and_sober_today_struggling_a_bit/

I have refrained from all drugs and alcohol for 81 days now. I got out of rehab 61 days ago and have been attending lots of AA meetings. Some NA as well. The AA meetings included opening the meeting making coffee etc for the month of August...In addition I have been getting some of my compulsive overeating under control...I made my home group Sunday morning AA meeting today and am going to an NA meeting in a few hours. Today I have just had a strange feeling. ..My day started off by thinking that I had $100 taken from my wallet - I have come to find out that it was not taken so that should have made me happy. But the fury I felt when I thought someone ripped me off has seemed to stick with me today...I have somewhat of a "honey do" list today and I feel like I am holding a grudge. She had the day off yesterday - and I am wondering why none of these things on the list got done by her yesterday...In reality I am far from sexist NEED to stay busy and want a clean house just as much as the next guy. So although I KNOW I should just get off my ass and do things I don't really like being asked. ..I am just using this sub as a safe place to vent. I get really angry sometimes. I used to TALK TALK TALK TALK and it was ALL bullshit. Now that I am sober I like solidarity I like silence I can think. And now it seems that no one around me shuts the heck up....ever...More than anything I feel better because I am actually typing these feelings out as compared to pissing and moaning to my s/o or anyone else...I am sure these are just growing pains...I seem to easily forget how often I would drink 2 fifths of whiskey and watch cartoons after calling in sick to work. I'm sure that didn't impress my s/o very much...I am relatively healthy clean and sober and have a lot to be grateful for...Why the heck do I get this way sometimes?..Anyway thanks for hearing me out...Off to an NA meeting in a few hours.
----------immediate responses--------

It took a long time for my anger to subside. I was ready to 'right' all the wrongs in the world and struggled too. Just remember your brain and whole outlook are shifting due to your new found sobriety. Just try to enjoy the range of emotions you're feeling.  ..Things that helped me - listening to Bhuddist talks on YouTube and things like Echkart Tolle. They all talk about the 'Ego' and it's constant need to be right and win all the battles in life.  ..Sometimes we have to accept that things don't go well and that we feel angry or low and that our worst day sober is 1000 times better than our best day drunk.   ..Also look up PAWS. Basically after the initial 14 days of withdrawal us drinkers have a few months of ups and downs before we level out.   ..I went from an extreme Extrovert to a complete Introvert and stay away from most people these days! I love it.  ..Keep safe.   
&gt;Why the heck do I get this way sometimes?..Because we're experiencing life without drugs or alcohol and life can be frustrating p don't get down on yourself...Also follow page 868788."As we go through the day we pause when agitated or doubtful and ask for the right thought or action."..Good luck!
Go to a meeting find a strong literature based sponsor quickly work the steps clean up the wreckage of your past work with others. ..It works every time and has kept me from drinking or using for 23 years
Seriously look at seeing a therapist about your anger. Outside help is encouraged in the program for those that need it. The more help you get the better your chances of staying clean and sober...May God bless you and keep you until then
Hey I'm 20 days C/S.  I'm so proud of you.   Thanks for giving me tail lights to follow into the darkness. 
