-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6zc8ph/relapsing_and_shaming/

Truth be told every single one of us have relapsed numerous thousands of times throughout our lives. The thing was we never had the accountability or support of the rooms. If someone relapses we should never be on a high horse and shame them or even let them think we will shame them when they come back... This isn't high school...That said... The love and understanding of the rooms should not be used as an excuse to have a relapse. We are all here to support each other but never enable.
----------immediate responses--------

I must say that not everyone relapses. It isn't a necessary part of recovery. I understand and respect the struggle and would never shame someone for relapsing...the shame is not learning from it. I call it needing to do more research and hopefully the lessons are learned. But not always sad to say. ..
I had 15 yrs... relapsed for two years.Then 2 years... relapsed for a year.Then 7 years... relapsed for a month.Then 9 mos... relapsed one day (overdosed).Then 2 years... relapsed a month.Now 20 days......I'm doing everything different.  New sponsor changed fellowships therapy and new friends in recovery.   I really want the last time to be the last time.  All I have however is today.   And today I'm not picking up no matter what.  
Relapse for me is when I'm not in good spiritual standing with the universe 
When I relapsed people support me and did not judge me but they also push me to get sober and I thank them for that. 
I relapsed recently. I don't feel too much shame about it. I wanted to drink and I did it. The only one who got hurt was me. My philosophy is if I (or anyone else) thinks drinking will make my life better I should go for it! No amount of shaming or support from other people is going to convince me to accept that first step I have to do it for myself.
It was only in my very early days that I thought that everyone should at least be making the effort to stay sober while attending AA.  ..7 years down the road and I have to laugh at how naive former me was.  These days anyone who wants to be sober today gets my help and support - end of story.
*We are not cured of alcoholism...*  .*What we actually have is a daily reprieve contingent on the maintenance of our spiritual condition*
You kidding?.. Do you think people who own up to relapsing are constitutionally incapable of being honest?..They are anspiration to us all.
