-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6zkd8b/i_think_that_tonight_is_the_night_im_a_lucky/

Full disclosure I'm still a little bit lit. I have kids they're young kids. They weren't in my car. I'm a lucky bastard. ..I know when i've "had too much" and I know how to handle whatever I've had. I've also been struggling with the reality of my situation  I know that I can't keep doing this. I can't possibly carry on my daily life being "a little bit" or "a lotta bit" lit. I need to stop. This is not good for me...I'm married to a wonderful woman. I have three wonderful young children. I've been partying like there's no tomorrow for longer than I can remember and tonight it finally hit home...I'm a lucky bastard...I rear ended someone tonight. I owned it and stopped immediately. They had a kid in the car. I was crushed. The kid was fine I think. He was asleep. My car took the brunt of the crash. I failed the field test. I had a story. I also had a nearby relative meet me at the scene. I went home with them and got a minor ticket...I'm a lucky bastard...I can't keep doing this. I long for excitement and difference. I am usually the first to jump out of my car to help stranded or injured people. I pressured my friend to take me to Texas with his boat last week to try and save people. I walked the streets today moving branches out of the road so people could pass after the hurricane. I did all of this "a little bit" lit. ..I am a lucky bastard...I know it's time to stop. I can't keep living like this. Alcohol narcissism and a lack of fucks killed my dad. I am headed in that direction but my wife still loves me. My kids still love me. They're great kids. I make them smile I make them laugh I'm still allowed to sleep in the same bed with my wife (except for tonight because she had to talk to a very chill and very awesome officer who was either naive and believed my bullshit or saw through it and realized that today was the day for me)...I'm a lucky bastard...My youngest just woke up while I was writing this. He's in my arm. I don't want to lose him and I don't want him to lose me...I AM A LUCKY BASTARD. ..I needed to get this off my chest. This disease took everything from my dad. It took my dad from me my brother and my mom. He was a good person but he was flawed. I thought I could manage my drive for excitement and danger and disregard for the world around me BETTER than he did. I hit the wall tonight I made a mistake in my car I hit someone else I called the right people and I got away with it...I am a lucky bastard...I can't rely on that luck anymore. I think its time to make a change. ..My wife took my keys my phone and my wallet tonight. I couldn't find a meeting within walking distance TONIGHT. But that's probably for the best. Like I said I'm still a little bit lit. I'll be stone cold sober tomorrow when I make my way to a meeting tomorrow...But I'm a lucky bastard...Thank you for reading this. My name is Lee and I'm an alcoholic.
----------immediate responses--------

Lee thank you for writing this. I am glad you--and the car you rear-ended--made it home tonight. ..It seems impossible and unimaginable but life only gets better sober. Never perfect but you get to live it 100%. ..It took me another 4 years to get help and stop drinking after my DUI. Don't be like me. Let this be your bottom because--I assure you--it can and will get SO much worse...Let us know how the meeting goes tomorrow! 
As you know the guilt always fades. If I read something next week from you describing the support you found that will hopefully allow you to do what you can't do for long then I'll know the next kid in the next car has a chance of growing up.
The kid is the lucky one 
