-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/713eko/im_desperate/

Hey all. I'm living in my 4th sober living environment been through 2 inpatients and 5 outpatients. Have a sponsor have almost 60 days clean. I'm going to relapse I feel it in my bones. I'm so fucking tired so fucking fed up with all of this fake bullshit. I can't do it anymore and I am desperate for help. "You'll be fine" is a crock of shit and all my sponsor talks about is time but I don't have time or the will power to wait or fight. Help 
----------immediate responses--------

Coffee.
Ok you want something real??..All that pain and suffering that you have lived through is still all there. Whatever low you've felt can only get worse.  Relapsing isn't going to fix that. There is no guarantee you will live through a relapse. ..If you don't want to change you won't.  
Perhaps you are clinically depressed. Seeing a doctor for an evaluation is something to consider before jumping of the relapse cliff. 
My experience relapse alcohol solves NOTHING and makes every pain and suffering that I have WORSE.  My RX for the risk of relapse is a-c-t-i-o-n.  Go talk to another drunk about that drunk's problems and try to relate.  Go to meetings to meet other drunks.  Participate.  Don't drink TODAY because you can always drink tomorrow if you still feel this way.  This approach worked for me when I came back from an entrenched 7 year relapse and a month ago I celebrated 8 years.  In other words I've been where you're at and I survived.
Are you planning on drinking or using heroin? 
Just keep in mind sobriety/AA is NOT a cure-all for life. The alcoholic for whom uncontrolled drinking was their *only* problem is quite lucky. Getting sober gives you the opportunity for the other stuff in your life it doesn't make everything all rainbows and butterflies...Be very careful of people who advise you differently. And your sponsor is someone to help you stay sober and help you work the Steps; *that's it*. They're not a life coach therapist financial advisor probation officer etc. 
Please take this as only my opinion.  Your history tells me that drinking will not help you it will only make things worse!!  If you're like me you want to feel better.  Unfortunately if you went into the woods 100 miles it's 100 miles out too.  This thing takes time.  You are partially correct it is not going to be fine at least all the time.  Fine is going to come with a length of continuous sobriety and working the steps.  Until then you are only going to experience occasional moments of fine.  I was very depressed and suicidal at one point but I decided I was worth living for.  So are you!!  ..The other thing that has to be in place is complete rigorous honesty with ourselves.  Once we begin to be honest with ourselves we begin the process of loving ourselves.  Sobriety is like eating an elephant.  We want to do it all at once but we can't.  We have to do it one bite at a time.  I consider every meeting and every time I work with my sponsor another bite out of my elephant.  For me what started out as a tiny pebble has already started to snowball into a way better life.  ..Lastly (probably should have been first) if you don't have a higher power please get one.  Pray for guidance to live in his will and he WILL start helping you change your life.  It WON'T be comfortable.  We can't expect it to be easy because we've been making his job hard for a long time.  The more you submit to your HP without reservation the faster he will heal you and your life will get better.  His will for you is for you to be happy joyous and free.  He can't make that happen for you unless you let him.  I hope you find peace OP and please don't drink.  You're doing the right thing by telling on your disease it wants us to drink and ultimately die.  You can do this!!  
Looks like you've sought help often and lots of people have tried to show you how staying sober is done. It's good you're seeking help today and people are responding to you with worthy advice and experience. ..So what is the usual thing that takes you back to the old misery? If you can get specific perhaps we can address it. Are you not feeling good enough for your standards or expectations? Are you surrounded by people who cannot possibly be expected to correctly fathom just what makes your situation and needs a bit different than the run-of-the-mill alcoholic they're used to dealing with?..
When the pain of staying the same becomes greater than the pain it takes to change... you're half way there. Hang in there bro 
Dude you got 60 days! Be proud of yourself! Has bad as you may feel now don't do it you'll feel worse! You can't get drunk if you don't have that first drink! 
Does your sobriety have no value ? Ponder that question for a few hours .
