-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/71900a/first_post_day_2_my_username_says_it_all/

As a huge Grateful Dead fan and someone who has escaped death more times than I can count I thought this would be the most fitting username I could choose. ..I really want to get back into journalling my sobriety journey so here are my random thoughts from the last week one that has been a whirlwind of ups and downs. I've been in and out of the rooms for a little over 3 years now. Two trips to rehab. Multiple felony arrests flatline overdoses blah blah blah war story shit no one wants to hear. I earned my fucking seat at the tables let's just put it that way. The longest period of sobriety I had was a year but it was a joke. I wasn't the spiritual guru I was leading people to believe I was and I got more of a rush into tricking people into thinking I worked a solid program rather than the actual relief I felt from two real months of working a real program later on. That's a story for another day though...A month ago I moved to a new city from the college town I lived in for 7 years. A town I fell in and out of love in with more times than my dog licks his balls every day. I had to get out because *of course* it was the town's fault that I couldn't stay sober not mine. You know how that story goes we all know the mind-altering substances always beat you to the airport before you even get off the plane...Life went from being terrible to just okay. I was managing. I said fuck AA I can live off marijuana maintenance and be just okay for the rest of my life. I ended up getting an amazing job my dream job ironically partly because one of my hiring project managers is in the program herself and I lied to her about how much time I had. ..Two weeks into my job I get a drug test and have to explain to this exact person in the program why I may or may not have failed the test. I make up a bullshit relapse story. She understands tells me to expect to be randomly tested again at some point. Can't smoke pot? No big deal at least I can go back to my old trusted friends alcohol and Xanax. A week later I have to go see my good ol' PO. I walk in there all high and mighty dressed up in my best suit thinking that will trick them not to drop the dreaded UA on me. **Boy was I wrong** ..I drop dirty. I plead with her not to violate me. *Ayyyyyy lemme get uhhhhhh the most desperate foxhole prayer ever please.* That's basically what I sounded like. ..Fuck it. I'm getting drunk. And I'm not going to work. I'm going to drink like I'm a wounded Civil War private and the surgeon is on his way with a rusty saw to cut my right leg off. Two days go by I'm still not at work and payday hits. For those of us alcoholics who use other hard substances you know how that story goes. My bender goes from that of a functioning buzzed Buzz Aldrin in Cape Canaveral to a strung out John Belushi stumbling on the set of Saturday Night Live in a matter of minutes. Before I even know it time has passed so quickly I realize I have to see my PO again in a few days. *I'm so fucked*..I wish I could tell you what it was but for the very first time in my drinking career I had actually had enough. Definitely not enough money or self-esteem but enough of the bullshit I've been putting my family my friends my co-workers and myself through. I had the exact experience that was talked about in the Big Book the same ones I scoffed at every time I read in a meeting or tried to share about half-heartedly to impress some newcomer. It was just like this excerpt from As Bill Sees It in today's Daily Reflections which I am so grateful I took the time to read this morning when I woke up:.&gt; "We admitted we couldn't lick alcohol with our own remaining resources and so we accepted the further fact that dependence upon a Higher Power (if only our A.A. group) could do this hitherto impossible job. The moment we were able to accept these facts fully our release from the alcohol compulsion had begun."..But this time was different than all the other times I felt that dreaded impending sense of doom. No more foxhole prayers. I got up and did something about it. I made calls. I was honest with others and most importantly myself. And you know what? Everything turned out *alright.* Not the exact way I wanted it to but that's just fine. I got another chance at life today and tomorrow I get another chance too. And that's fucking awesome. ..There's something this last week that hit me pretty hard and made me realize just how oblivious I am as an alcoholic to how my actions affect the ones I love. Last night into the early morning I had a very deep conversation with two of my normie roommate friends about the things going on in our lives. My one roommate whose father passed away unexpectedly just two weeks ago looks at me after I poured my heart out about my recent struggles. He said and I'll paraphrase this:..&gt; "The other day I had to walk into a church filled with hundreds of people mourning my father. I didn't expect that I would have had to do that so soon I thought that'd come way later in life. I don't want yours to be the next one I experience that feeling at." ..This has been a crazy emotional week for me. I only have two days sober but I have learned so much about myself and so much about what I need to do to get my life back on track. I have a great job a loving family caring friends an amazing dog and everything in the world to live for. ..I plan on coming to this subreddit a lot in addition to going to meetings just so I can remind myself of that every single day because when you're an alcoholic it's super easy to get caught up in the chaos of life and forget about all these wonderful things. As my old sponsor used to sign off after every telephone conversation we had where I was being a whiney spoiled jerk: *Find some gratitude asshole.*..
----------immediate responses--------

Being convinced that self manifested in various ways was what had defeated us we considered its common manifestations.- page 64 Alcoholics Anonymous. ..
Check out also /r/stopdrinking.
My husband and I are big fans as well.  Just got him this for his 12 years ..https://imgur.com/a/64zsI
