-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/71to4o/3_years_sobermy_very_first_relapse/

Backstory:..I am an alcoholic .I have been sober for three years. Until now. Last night is my only night off which is the night I go to dinner with my mom. This happens every week for the past year or so and we normally meet up choose where she would like me to take her for dinner then we eat after our meal we always go to the local bar (my second home when I drank and where most of my good friends usually hang about). I have NEVER broken my sobriety in 3 years because when my mom drinks at the bar and socializes with friends I spend my time playing pool and hanging out with my friends. It has never been an issue refraining from alcohol while at the bar because all of my friends are supportive and don't even offer. ..Where my night begins ..I met up with my mom at her house and we did the usual and struggled to pick where we were going. Once we picked we headed off to a restaurant close by. I listen to the weekly gossip and my mom catching me up about the family. After dinner we headed to the bar and it was unusually busy for the Thursday night. One of my best friends came home from the military and I completely blanked that I was invited to his welcoming home gathering at the bar. Perfect I get to have a chat with my mother and show up to the party! So long story short my mom wanted to go home a few hours later (10pm) so I dropped her off at her house right down the street and headed back to celebrate with my friends. Like I said all of my friends are respectful of my sobriety so there was never a problem with pressure to drink. After hanging out for another hour or two most of the guys left and it's was just the close circle of about five guys. We've have all been close friends for 12 years (freshman in high school). We are all pretty much brothers from another motha. We did our fair share of partying and getting into trouble. So I am playing pool shootin the shit and teasing each other as usual and then it pretty much goes black from then on out. ..Turns out my friend from the military challenged me that I couldn't out drink him. In our group I was the one who drank excessive amounts of alcohol ever time we hung out and this particular friend was the one who we always teased for being a lightweight and always the first one passed out. Apparently the first 10 times he challenged me I said fuck off no way because 1. I'm sober and 2. I didn't believe him. I apparently beside my side that he actually thought he could out drink me. Turns out I can still out drink everyone in my group haha but he has gotten better. Then we started with one full bottle of Markers Mark whiskey each and whoever finished it first won. Don't ask me why because I don't know. I guess I justified it by saying only once because he is home and I could never see him again. I guess I had a fucking awesome night and had a killer time. One of my other good friends is the bartender so he locked the doors and let us stay after last call (2am I was trashed by then). At about 4am I was one bottle of makers mark 2 vodka sodas and two IPA's deep. We decided to head home right after 4 so they called an Uber but I decided to walk to my moms house to sleep. This morning I woke up at sitting in my bathtub completely hungover and still a little drunk and feeling the biggest feeling of regret. I feel completely defeated. Something I was so passionate about I just blew it all away just because. I know I had a great fucking time with my friends but we always do I didn't need alcohol for the fun. I am definitely paying for it today. But whatever day one again. Time to start over. ..
----------immediate responses--------

Dust yourself off and get back to staying sober. Learn from this. I relapsed at five years sober and was beating myself up. But I got back my sobriety. Good luck
Relapse starts before we pick up the drink. When did yours begin? I'm curious about what you are going to do differently so this doesn't happen again. I couldn't stay sober without a support system including a therapist and AA. ..Kudos for three years! ..I'm glad you're back; not everyone makes it. 
Just get back up. We all have those times and days. Start over and keep your head up
What's your defense against the first drink? Will power or His power?
