-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/745e8u/introducing_yourself_as_a_newcomer_after_youve/

Or that's what I kept telling myself. I actually just did it for the first time at my home group and I feel so much better. I worked it up in my head as we often do but it wasn't so bad. So if you're scared like I was don't be. The hardest part is getting to that first meeting. Xx 
----------immediate responses--------

The hardest part for me was announcing I relapsed becuase the peeople that helped me before I had supposedly let down.  But it was all in my head peoplejust want to see you succeeed and applaud your bravery for returning .
Interesting - this must be a US thing. Here in England we don't require any such formality - we just hug relapsers and feed them cake and biscuits. More often than not they'll pipe up at some point during the meeting and tell everyone anyway...
No. The worst thing is indulging your pride and dying drunk as a consequence. We don't want to lose all that "status"!
I can think of a couple of times over the past 13 years where I did NOT take a drink because I simply did not want to have to look everyone in the eye and tell them.  I am grateful for the brave ones that show back up and admit relapse.  Has kept a great many of us sober.
Good for you sounds like you want to live.
The hardest part is knowing there's a solution and doing nothing about it.  A lot of us never make it back in the rooms.  I myself relapsed after a considerable amount of years and I let my pride and ego get in the way of returning.  But eventually after a few years I returned and have never looked back. 
Your bravery for doing this will help others that are afraid to be honest.      ..We don't shoot our wounded and you are an example of that! 
The worst thing you can do after a slip up is to NOT come back. Someone on here told me once that putting my ego aside and being honest with everyone is one of the best ways to get back on track. It worked for me and I didn't think I'd be sober for 6 months. You got this
