-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/759zbt/is_aa_right_for_me/

Hi there - I've commented but no posted yet - I'm posting to see if anyone identifies and can relate or has been through similar..Involves 12 step - I am not anti 12 step! It works for some not all but didn't work for me at the time.......so wondered why.........So i'm middle aged in a small UK town - history of drug abuse sex addiction overeating..... - stopped the drugs the sex addiction continued (was told in rehab i wasn't there for sex addiction just drug addiction - i hadn't laid a finger or suggested having sex with anyone else but they picked up on something i said in a group therapy session)...So couple of years ago after bouts of depression and having addressed food and drug addiction realised I had a problem with alcohol - still working etc. but realised it was not healthy. Started attending AA....the people nice and as my rehab had been 12 step i had no problem with the higher problem thing..What I'd thought was a slogan - 'take what you need and leave the rest behind' - was being disputed in meetings. 'It's not a buffet' - you had to believe it all or nothing. And then 'the big book is perfect' - it cant be it was written by a person but a deity - and calling it perfect is making it religious. ..And i realised i couldn't read out 'rarely have we seen a person fail who didn't follow our program' and i shared 'what's the evidence??' - there wasn't any. The rooms full of people who it had worked for or it had hope it would work for them - but no one to say 'no it didn't work for me'...I got a sponsor - well he approached me but people said he had a lot of clean time and I was in good hands. And yup he's a nice guy I didn't and don't dislike him I have a lot of time for him.  So then I  started working the steps - after 2 months i lapsed one day - lots of shame about for me and it was shame that lead me to lapse..I rang my sponsor and told him he said I'd been selfish in lapsing and I felt like an utter failure. ..After a few months I continued on step work and had heard Step 5 was really a turning point. I'd pray each day meditate went to meetings 3-4 per week..I worked on Step 5 over 4-6 weeks and put everything into it - shared with sponsor. Expected something.......but was presented with a horoscopic chart of opposite attributes......and from what I'd put down it ticked most of the boxes. Nothing new to learn there - nothing insightful. No recognition. My sponsor was being pleasant and all but I'd expected more identification or something....not sure. ..Xmas came - i had more thoughts about drinking - but i'd been lead to believe that the urge would soon leave. I shared in a meeting that despite being 6m sober and working the steps all i could I still thought a lot about alcohol..After meeting a lady i liked who was humble and had 13 years sobriety came up to me after and said 'oh course you do! you're an alcoholic' - i was utterly surprised. I'd thought the people in the rooms who were working the steps were free from cravings - particularly over Xmas - yes a lot of alcohol about but I'd been told we would rarely think about it? ..Despite being sober from alcohol my sex addiction continued. One guy who had come up to me (as I was a newcomer when i'd started) who was attractive contacted me and we had very basic sexual fun. He was quite high up in the AA hierarchy in terms of meeting boards and service. I'd hoped i could talk to him about the sex addiction i contacted him to see if he was 'OK' - he blanked it and denied all knowledge of it...I still felt depressed. I hear talk of 'other meetings' but there's no sex addiction meetings in my area. I cant attend NA due to work (it's a good job but very boundaried working with drug addicts)..So - I want to stop alcohol. I'm receiving help for sex addiction no drugs - I'd love to go back to AA for the mutual aid..But.......I'd love to hear other people's opinions on these:..1) Rarely have we seen a person fail......I've heard stories of many for whom it didn't work - and i don't believe it was because they were incapable of being honest to themselves..2) You have to follow the program by the letter - it's not a buffet - in contrast to what I'd seen re 'take what you need leave the rest behind'.3) Do the cravings go? I'd been told by sponsor that anyone reporting cravings was not doing the steps properly.4) Being told i was selfish for relapsing - having been to boarding school I was often mocked that my crying for parents who weren't there was selfish. So if I'm told this it just relives that memory of 'oh we cant cope with this so FFS grow up!'.5) Why follow the big book to the letter? - it was written by a person not a deity so it cannot be infallible. It's full of things that might have seemed sensible in the 1930s but nowadays very sexist and out of touch....Absolutely not having a go at AA - this is my experience - I know it works for some but not for all......But please don't tell me to 'grow up' etc. - as explained it doesn't work on me...But I'd love hear any possible similar experiences or views? :)..Thank you for reading :) Am cross posting to a few sites.......
----------immediate responses--------

What do you want from AA and being in recovery? ..AA.org faqs has a section on Bill W explaining "rarely have we seen..."..I was rock-bottom and done in beaten exhausted.  I now realise this was the gift of desperation.  In the 12&amp;12 it says we cannot rationalize or intellectualize alcoholism.  Many have tried.
Hello! I appreciate you reaching out and asking questions that you haven't gotten answered yet. AA saved my life and I questioned the hell out of it for years with some of the same questions. I went 3 different times over a period of 16 years the longest sobriety was 9mos until now (3 yrs) Every time I relapsed it was bc I had stopped doing what I was supposed to be doing. Either stopped talking g to sponsor daily stopped talking to HP scaled back mtgs something. Not all at once but let one of these things stop. I always took what I needed to mean that I didn't have to like or get along with everybody. Some personalities just clash. But I did have to sort the core AA truth from a bunch of other ppls BS. That's what it meant for me..
AA people literature practices sayings traditions coffee and many times the room thermostat settings are imperfect. Sorry you weren't told in advance...What you really need to do is to find out where the perfect place is where the perfect people go to recover from alcoholism and do everything in the right way according to your lights. Where they offer not only recovery from alcoholism but also for every little thing that's on your personal laundry list. The place that fits you like a glove in every way. Then you and everything else will be peachy forevermore.
I've never heard anyone say the Big Book is perfect. It's perhaps an imperfect program but it works for many people. If you really want recovery through AA go back and work the program of AA. Maybe you need a different sponsor. But you're not going to find anyone perfect. From this one post it sounds like you want to "prove" that AA doesn't work in order to justify not being sober. 
I also deal with sex addiction and alcoholism. AA works for my drinking and over time it has helped with sex too. I suggest not getting involved with anyone in AA at all. You message me if you want to talk more about my experience with each addiction. 
For me AA is but a piece of my recovery.  The literature is misogynistic and outdated.  I'm an atheist so the god talk can be overbearing but I've learned to reinterpret certain aspects of AA for my own use.  Adam N. in his book **Common Sense Recovery: AN Atheist's Guide to AA** talks about being an "interpreter" how different interpretations of the same situation can still get us to the same conclusion.  If I believe god works through people or I believe people can help me solve my problem I'll wind up with the same crowd seeking advice...1) Honesty is tricky.  For 3 years I tried AA and couldn't get it.  I thought I was being honest but I wasn't.  I thought I had taken the first step but I hadn't.  The first step is two parts: "We admitted we were powerless over our addiction;" no problem there I know I'm a drunk.  "That our lives had become unmanageable."  I thought I understood that but today it means that I cannot make decisions by myself.  No matter how much sober time I have my thoughts will always be diluted by the mental obsession and physical compulsion to drink and use drugs.  Even when I don't recognize it's there I still have to filter my thoughts throw other people in recovery before I can make a decision.  On my own I'm likely to make a few bad decision which stack up and eventually cause my relapse.  And each day I'm only one bad decision away from total destruction...2) There's a lot of contradictory statements in AA.  It's not a buffet but you're god can be whatever you want it be so the program's not a buffet but god is?  It's outdated written almost 100 years ago.  I found a sponsor to take me through the big book.  We get together every week and read a chapter and discuss it often laughing at some of the insanity that's in there but reinterpreting it to make it work in our daily lives.  On [aaaagnostica.org](www.aaagnostica.org) there was once an essay about a woman who had trouble with the concept of "Let go and let god."  She decided it was best for her to let go of the god part.  Let go of what doesn't work but talk to your sponsor and other AA members about your motivation.  Am I letting go of this because it seems too hard or I just don't want to deal with it?  Or have I thoroughly dealt with it and found it less useful in my recovery?..3) I know a woman who carried around her 7 month chip because that's when the obsession lifted.  I get cravings when I'm in unhealthy situations like an open bar at a wedding or office party.  I know where my high risk situations are and I prepare for them.  Before attending any event that might be high risk including family gatherings funerals etc. I look up meetings in that area I drive my own car and set up google maps to get direction in one click.  This way I can get out of there immediately if I need to.  But often I don't need to having a back up plan and knowing there's a safe place down the street is sometimes enough to remind me I'm not alone...4) I'm told it's a selfish program.  It's a selfish disease.  In early recovery it's about you.  Chase your recovery like you chased your addiction.  If someone makes you feel weakened or threatened by relapsing they're not an AA friend.  Or it's possible that they're giving you some tough love and in hindsight what they've said will be less hurtful and make more sense once you have some clean time.  I know when I relapsed it was because I wanted to but at the time I would've given you every excuse as to why it happened.  But really I just didn't want to accept the sober me.  I was more afraid of who I would become in AA than continuing down a path of destruction because the destruction was familiar...5) Don't follow the big book to the letter.  Dr. Bob was a morphine junkie in "sobriety" and Bill W. messed around with other drugs and methods trying to achieve spirituality; including holding seances at his home and dropping acid.  But DO go through the big book with a sponsor and discuss your issues with the text.  I have a lot of issues with the big book but I still go to it for guidance.  However I also read the NA Basic Text Daily Reflections Just For Today Twelve Steps and Twelve Traditions Living Sober and I look for recovery everywhere I can.  I look for recovery is Jackson Pollock paintings in Anthony Hopkins' acting in Stephen King's writing.  There are so many people who have either suffered from the disease of addiction and/or recovered and documented what they've done in fantastic entertaining way.  Recovery is all around me when I'm looking for it.  I leave a big book on my table and the electrician comes over to deal with a faulty wire and says "Hey is that your big book?"  Suddenly we're having a one-on-one AA meeting in my apartment.  They say "It only takes two to make a meeting."..I could go on and on about what works for me and what doesn't.  But the simple answer is that any recovery program will give you back whatever you put in.  Eventually something will click when you find the right meetings the right people the right literature.  Recovery is about the journey not the destination.  It's about waking up every morning and asking myself what can I do to help the next sick and suffering addict.  It's about really breaking myself down and building myself back up with the supports of friends and family in recovery.  "It's about spiritual progress not spiritual perfection."  Someday I don't work the program to the best of my ability.  Sometimes I go a month or more without going to a meeting.  But as long as I don't pick up it's another day and another victory.
You have several great questions.  They all point to the concern that AA is not a good fit for you.  I can't answer that for you.  Many people have found sobriety and a new life that saved them from self-destructive behavior in the guidance of AA and other twelve step programs.  For others it has not produced a significant improvement in the malady of addiction.  ..What you seem to be asking is what are the things I have to do and what is the crap that I can save time by not doing.  You have stated that you have at least two addictions that are still active in your life.  It is therefore obvious that you need to do something different than what you have done.  I used to question everything about addiction solutions and programs like 12 step groups.  The evidence for some of these solutions I found in the faces and words of people that were clean and sober...I used to question many of the things I didn't like or was too lazy to do.  I am not saying that is what you are doing.  That is what I did.  I used questions to avoid doing my part.  Many things didn't work well.  Then I gave myself a break from doubting and questioning so I could have a positive outlook on what I wanted to be.  And things started to change for the good...It is interesting that when I see a medical doctor and they prescribe me medication I don't ask for the clinical trial results or the efficacy studies.  I trust that this is what I should try if I have given the information requested.  Hardly anything in the medical field or therapeutic fields is 100% effective.  Even placebos have a level of effectiveness in many studies.  Why is that?  Is it the power of the mind?..If many people have suffered with the exact same thing that I have and they have found peace joy and a better life; I want to try what they did.  Will AA work for you?  I don't know.  But if you aren't all in the very founders of the group say it probably won't.  The choice is yours.
Defiance is one of the hallmark traits of an alcoholic as well as being childish over sensitive and grandiose... facing myself was difficult but today I don't have to operate within my defects I'm able to be of service to god and my fellows... and it feels pretty awesome. .I'm not unique in this this is available to anyone to seeks it and works at it. .It works if you work it
