-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/76hwch/dad_relapsed_not_sure_what_to_do/

Feeling sick to my stomach right now. My dad was clean since 2008 and I still live with him. I hadn't drank anything in my stash for a while and I was gonna pour myself a glass tonight...only to find that the bottle was half gone and I know I'd barely even touched it. I showed it to him and he absolutely denied it and told me to "retrace my steps" (right...like I drank half a bottle of jack daniels the night before I had class and work...). My mom thought I was onto something and we looked in his car. We found 2 fifths of vodka...Idk...I'm just so disappointed in him. He did really good in rehab and stayed clean for so long and I really thought that was gonna be the end of it. If he continues this he's going to ruin his 25 year marriage with my mom because I know she's not going to put up with round 2 now that the kids are all grown up.....It's clear that he's very in denial about it. My mom has a very short temper and is a very stressful person so she's likely going to make it worse so what is something I can do to help him back on the path?.
----------immediate responses--------

I don't think there's much you can do for him other than to let him know that you're going to be there for him should he wish to quit drinking.? I would suggest that you and your mom take in Al-Anon. It's a support group for family and friends who are in your situation. All the best to you and your family.
I understand what you're going through. I guess what I'm saying is that unfortunately there's probably not much you can do for him. I wouldn't let your past Al-Anon experience taint a new opportunity. Who knows maybe this time around will be better
Maybe try to figure out or ask if there was a triggering event and help fix it. If it is just a backslide for me I  found I needed to want to get sober for myself in order for it to stick. 
Trust me on this... You just caught him... He's been drinking forfat longer than you think... Probably years... He just got sloppy this one time so you were able to catch him...You're disappointed in him yet you have been probably drinking in his face since 2008... An alcoholic can only take so much...The ONLY thing you can do for him and your family is not to have alcohol in the house at all. Start going to meetings with him and start supporting him...Unless you want to drink your father dead and your family destroyed I suggest you start looking at yourself and realize that you are part of the problem and not the solution. 
