-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/76opt7/i_just_need_to_vent_to_anyone/

I'm 10 months sober from alcohol. I'm a nursing assistant and I'm going to school to become a registered nurse. That's what I want to do with my life. So a little background.. I have scoliosis and chronic migraines. So to cope with my pain I smoke weed. Which doesn't cause problems at all for me because it helps me sleep and the body pain goes away. I got randomly drug tested at work because some idiot put a narcotic in the paper shredder. Lol. My heart sank and my future went down the tubes right before my eyes. So luckily I found a way to pass the drug test. I know this won't ever happen again where I'd get a little heads up before a drug test. So I feel the universe is telling me to stop smoking weed. I'm devastated and terrified. I'm so disgusted with how people can just go buy alcohol and abuse that but someone who could benefit from weed can't because of their job. Why is alcohol legal and weed isn't.. alcohol is so horrible I wish it never existed.. yet people can just casually drink...??? And I can easily get pain killers for pain but I don't want to get addicted to those? It makes no sense. Basically I just feel lost right now. I enjoyed my time smoking and going to bed. But anyways I'm glad I'm sober from alcohol and just need to find another thing to replace weed. I was thinking about getting back into kickboxing. But that's like 100 a month so I can't afford that at the moment. I'm super impatient too.. sorry I'm rambling. Anyways why is alcohol okay but weed isn't. Makes me very upset. Why do I have to be an alcoholic. Pisses me off. Btw I can't drink anymore anyways because 1 it gives me panic attacks and I go into a deep depression (which is a blessing in disguise) 2 it ruins my life lol. So no I won't relapse on alcohol ever again. But fuck. 
----------immediate responses--------

vent here 
r/leaves 
When I got into AA a few months ago i was almost at a year without alcohol. But! What I had done is essentially switched out weed for the alcohol. I had several reasons I used to justify my marijuana usage. So when I get to the program and my sponsor says that while I am smoking weed I am not truly sober I freaked. I went through stages of grief and it was tough. I was going to lie to my sponsor so I could keep smoking and I was angry and sad and trying to justify again. So many negative feelings. However I knew that alcohol was still ruining my life even a year after drinking while I was not working the program. So I finally conceded and realized that I needed to truly let go completely and work the steps and listen to my sponsor. I quit smoking and reset my date (which was at the time the biggest blow to my ego and was TOUGH. Went from having a year to having 1 day and I hadn't even drank). But yknow what weed wasnt ruining my life the way that alcohol did but it was not allowing me to deal with myself and my issues. It was a way to numb out. Now I can recognise that the sober date is just a number. I know my journey and the many facets of it and I know the most important thing is that I have today SOBER. And all those reasons I was using to justify smoking weed (anxiety depression pain stomach issues...) they're all becoming managable the longer I have sober. I'm at 90 days totally sober and I am so very glad to have made the very tough decision to quit smoking. Hope you find what works for you. :)
The key here is to be completely honest with yourself. If weed happens to be the only way your migraine stops then as long as it is prescribed by a medic and not self-medicated should be okay. However if you find in yourself that weed is actually more to get high than to calm your symptoms then maybe you should also consider it an addiction. No one can tell but you. I know it sucks. I know that it doesn't seem fair. I still don't consider it fair after all this time of being sober. I wish I could just light a bowl and smoke away and know that there won't be any consequences. Sadly in my case that's a fantasy. So bottom line ask yourself whether you actually need marijuana or whether you could attempt another form of medication or activity to help you ease your symptoms. And always remember one day at a time. 
You should look into CBD oil. It if federally legal. Benefits of marijuana without the THC. 
A nurse friend stopped drinking 13 years ago and has a year sober now after getting popped for impaired driving on weed. Almost lost his license to practice and has had to jump through a ton of hoops to keep it and continue to do the work he loves...One of our group members is a doctor (has experience getting caught for drugs and hoop-jumping and staying sober 16 yrs) and has sponsored him this past year. ..Putting all your hard work and the future you want for yourself at great risk seems like a poor choice. No better option available?..
Not answering your direct question about alcohol being legal but have you ever tried Maxalt for your migraines? I also suffer from chronic migraine and am an alcoholic and addict. I will not take narcotics for them so am alternative my doctor prescribed is Maxalt. It's non-addictive not a narcotic and helps A LOT. You can get it prescribed in various manners...my script is to take at the onset of any headache. It prevents a migraine from occurring and get be piggy-backed with Tylenol or Ibuprofen. Also a nice ice pack on my neck and hey it helps! Might not be the answer to all and every migraine you get but it's worth a shot to investigate with your primary physician if you want to keep your job (which is sounds like you're super goal oriented...Awesome for you!!!). Hope this helps and best of luck! 
