-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/76qbls/i_dont_know_how_to_remain_sober/

For the past month I have been sober from alcohol and other drugs. I have felt great and my mind has been the clearest it has been in a while. But I am always craving something...For the first time in a long time I have been able to say no to drinking and feel like I can actually stick to my decision to not drink...I struggle however with remaining sober from everything else. Like today for instance I wanted a drink bad but instead went and got diazepam and took 4 10mg tablets. It is honestly like I cannot resist. ..I want to be able to enjoy just being sober but I constantly feel like I have to be in an altered state to be happy. I don't know what to do. I don't understand why I can't just be happy being sober and why I always feel I have to have a release either through alcohol or other drugs...How do you find a drive to stay sober from everything. I don't want to be addict but for some reason there is just something in my head I can't shut off that is constantly craving an altered state. It is honestly like a little voice in my mind telling me not to take anything then an even stronger voice yelling that I have too. I always feel so much guilt when I give into my cravings..
----------immediate responses--------

Do you have any 12 step meetings near you? If you're not sure I would suggest AA.org to find one and go asap 
Although alcohol exacerbated and created a lot of my problems I used it to cope it was my answer. So when I stopped drinking I had to deal with the underlying shit that led me back to constantly needing something to change my mood...All of a sudden you're having to deal with life straight up nothing to numb you and thats a really big deal. For me sorting out how I respond to my emotions is a huge learning curve. I've had to change so much. Rather than feeling like I have to resist the drink I'm more aware of the times when I really want it and thats kind of where my programme kicks into a higher gear. I always talk to another addict I avoid old routines like the plague I avoid getting complacent and I get to a meeting. I'm not saying AA is for everyone but it's got me through some shit so far and it's just another tool 
I'm always surprised by these posts because everyone always ends up suggesting the same thing: a 12 step meeting. I am not the exception. You need to go to a 12 step meeting whether it's AA or NA or whatever. For some reason however people seem reluctant. And who am I to judge? It also took me a while to realize that there is no secret recipe method or medicine for this illness other than the 12 steps. ..Listen friend I'm sorry you're not having an easy time. It's not supposed to be easy. Sobriety is process. If you want to enjoy  being sober  then I highly suggest just like everybody else reading this post and who shares a similar experience to you and I that you attend a meeting and surrender yourself to your illness. There is no use fighting it. 
I dunno  i was lucky in my early sobriety that i feel i had a spiritual experience and the craving for alcohol and drugs was lifted. I knew that I (bold and underscored I) couldn't fix my craving  i needed a higher power to.  But more broadly that craving still exists in the form of wanting to arrange my external circumstances to fix the way I'm feeling sometimes.  I'm not comfortable with my situation- maybe i need some new clothes  or a new job  or a hot girlfriend  that'd do the trick! I've found that working the 12 steps has given me the tools to address those cravings.  
It's our inability to bear reality for long at a time without an assist that's the root of our problem imo and why stopping drinking feels so painful and becomes untenable after a while. Comes with the condition and imo is the reason most alcoholics either fail at abstinence have to med up or are driven to take actions to recover long term (change sufficiently to get along in reality well while staying in our right minds).
LadyButane's comment is spot on read it 100 times if you need to...I would also add to seek outside help if you feel you need it. I'm currently seeing a therapist and this has helped me get to the root of a lot of issues.
I know the exact feeling. It's like I always need SOMETHING to get me through the day. It's that constant anxious feeling. I need to get my ass and get to a meeting tonight.
Try an AA or NA meeting. 
