-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/76s84s/i_dont_know_what_to_do_so_deeply_miserable_rant/

Drinking killed my dad via cirrhosis cigarettes killed my mom via lung cancer. I was too young to lose them when I did and now I'm a slave to both of their vices still carrying the grief amplifying the guilt. In a horrible swirl of trying to drown out the lingering pain using the same instruments that caused them and I this pain.  .  .I have a job that pays a lot put me well past where I ever thought I could be financially. However I work far from home 1/2 to 3/4ths of my life is spent at work I've been at it for years and I'm beginning to feel "Institutionalized." Work is the safe place now although I do find ways to get hammered there off hours. At home I keep myself obliterated. Just driving alcohol and music into myself to try to reconnect with being a human again. That's how it feels. I get a week a month to try to be human again and then I have to go back to being organic machinery.   .  .I don't do anything I love anymore. Everything I think I can do to add personal depth to my life becomes a brief glimmer that I acquire and promptly put down to get hammered. Can't seem to make myself do anything unless I can drink while I'm at it. I want to quit my job so so badly and get help have time process. I never had that time. My mom went first my dad summarily fucked the whole family financially and we've all struggled since all of us in survival mode none of us with time to sort it out. I'm so afraid of being poor and stuck. It's scary shit being poor I've been there and I'm grinding myself into dust to protect myself from being there again. So in that regard I'm not winning in any way..  .I have to go back to work soon. My stomach is already in knots. All I want to do is stop. Stop the world take a breath and not be pulled or pushed not be living just to keep living because I'm still living. .  .I just had to vent. Thank you for reading those of you who did.
----------immediate responses--------

Rehab saved my life. If you can afford it I would consider it. Having a safe place with no access to alcohol and time to think about my life was a godsend. I learned about recovery addiction and started gathering tools to build the sober happy life I have today.  
Nothing changes if nothing changes so change something.
That sucks man.  or woman.  I can feel you pain through those words and I was there a while back. I felt like the sun was setting on my life and I wanted to die.  I did rehab and have been working a solid program and new I feel like the sun is rising.  I never thought I could live without alcohol.  And now I am and it is good.  Best of luck.  Go for it. 
.&gt;  .&gt;I don't do anything I love anymore. Everything I think I can do to add personal depth to my life becomes a brief glimmer that I acquire and promptly put down to get hammered. ..I identify with this incredibly.  I would do things i used to love or thought o would.  Something would briefly click  but I would have an overwhelming sense of futility that would say "don't try nothing will ever change. You can't really feel joy like the rest of humanity"  Then i couldn't wait to get back to the hell i was comfortable in. ..Try getting to a meeting and see how it feels.  Not all need to drop everything they are obligated to to get help.  Failing that keep talking to us here.  Best of luck
Sounds like you're doing just enough to keep from hitting a bottom. Also sounds like you have an understanding of your situation. I can only speak for myself-what happened to me. I didn't so much as reach a bottom as I did reach the point you seem to be at (I can see the bottom from here). SOmuch2learn talked about rehab. It also saved my life by getting me physically sober so I could get to AA and learn to become emotionally sober. It can be done. You sound bright and motivated. What would you tell a loved one to do  in your situation? Please let us know how you're doing. 
This seems like a great first step towards getting help. I'm sure there are a lot of people out here that have been in a similar emotional position to where you find yourself. I don't think physical addiction is the marker I think it's about how you feel . And alcohol is just nailing you into your isolation at this point. .I relate to your pain and lack of  living'. You need more than a pulse to live! .Life can be sweet again. I'm just starting to feel that. And I'm starting to grieve for my parents and great friends that I've lost. It's hurting and I'm more sensitive than I've ever been. But it's worth it because I feel alive! And there are good feelings to feel too..Heart felt good luck to you. 
I'm an alcoholic in recovery. I've been to many AA meetings and heard many stories. No two stories are exactly alike. And no one but yourself can proclaim you an alcoholic. May I suggest looking at the AA "Big Book" online and read the chapter called "Doctors Opinion" and "There is a Solution ". I will not tell you your answers are there but mine were. Please hit me up anytime. My life today is better than anything I dreamed about sitting alone and loaded. 
I'd go to rehab friend. Bare minimum go to AA meetings every day until they click - Twin Cities 
I'm about to go soon. Yesterday was a heavy heavy day emotionally and my esophagus is cooked from nonstop beer for days. I feel broken.   .  .It's pretty plain that my problems run much deeper than addiction. I'm going to ask my employer what time off for mental health looks like and try to get some counseling set up for when I get back.  .  .Thank you everyone. 
Sense of safety security and family will help even if you don't feel ready for it right now. Experience of reality being safe and good.
How are you doing today?
