-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/777npi/going_back_to_aa_so_scared/

I went to my first aa meeting a few weeks back and i found it to be very very intimidating and i didnt wanna go back but i have had another heavy week of drinking and i want to go back tonight but im scared and what the people will think cus i relapsed..As well i never read any of the aa book yet i never knew it would be so hard to say out loud im an alcohlic and i have a hard time with it all but i really need the support to get my foot back in the door: i should go to the 7pm meeting. 
----------immediate responses--------

many of us have been in the same situation. If you haven't read the book or started the steps with a sponsor you really haven't started the program yet so you did not fail. When they ask if there are any newcomers please stand up and say "I am (name) and I am an alcoholic" and some version of "I am new and looking for help and a sponsor" and my guess is someone will step up to help. Remember when you see someone in an AA meeting is is because they are alcoholics too! And the 12th step teaches us we must give it away to keep it so you are doing the people in that room a favor by allowing them to share their experience strength and hope with you. Please go tonight at 7! 
The only thing they will think is "wow I'm so glad (s)he is back.  I was worried since they haven't been here.  I hope they stick around this time!"..It can be scary at first.  I was terrified for my first week.  Wouldn't talk.  Cried a lot...Drinking is scarier. ..All that is meant by "rock bottom" is "reaching the point where drinking is scarier than doing the things required to stay sober."..Is drinking scarier that sitting in a room for an hour and listening to other alcoholics?  You don't have to share.  You just have to listen.  That doesn't scare me as much as drinking does.  
Most people are not really thinking that much. Usually just glad for some company. I would not sweat it. 
AA is a no-judgment zone...People will be so glad you're back and eager to help support you if you reach out...Just remember that showing up is the key so you don't have to do anything but show up for your sobriety...Kudos for going back!!
It's natural to be scared. But you'll be welcomed by everyone. 
Go to the meeting. We don't shoot our wounded. If anyone says something to your about your relapse tell them to piss off...Welcome back!
You should go...No one there should look at you funny or criticize you for not staying sober.  ..Most of us didn't get sober the first time we tried...  it's a process.
Go and just LISTEN.  If someone says something that clicks with you ask them for their number.  You don't have to say anything for as long as you want just LISTEN. "LEARN TO LISTEN LISTEN TO LEARN". I went to a Tuesday Step Meeting for months before I spoke and I made a joke about it and everyone laughed. Trust you will feel much better.
Im  happy i went. Now one day at a time. The meeting was all different people i never met and i did get numbers this time. Thats a start. .Im glad i pushed myself to go im going to keep going.
