-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7783yt/am_i_too_picky_with_my_sponsor/

So I am feeling as though I'm building a resentment with my sponsor. Someone said to me If your sponsor doesnt make your 4th step their not doing it right. Haha right? But I'm not sure this is what they meant. ..Also! This is my 4th sponsor already and I feel as though perhaps I am being too picky or maybe I can't stay with one Becasue it's my way of putting the real work off. However I don't THINK that's the case. My first sponsor relapsed her sponsor took me on but she has so many sponsees and it was clear she took me Becasue she felt obligated too and clearly didn't have much time to work with me. I grabbed someone else real quick so I could get out of that situation sponsor #3 who I left because I think I grabbed her just to get out of situation #2 and it became clear quickly her sobriety was pretty anger-fueled which I did not want. So I got #4 who is very sweet but seemed really gung-ho to sponsor me but now it seems like she doesn't have the time or the drive I feel like I need. ..I think I'm very good at seeming ok when I am not so perhaps that's why she is moving so slowly. We have only done step one so far (incredibly thoroughly) but we have been together for almost two months. She continually reschedules and does not seem appropriately responsive when I try to tell her I am struggling. I was having a freak out this weekend and felt the closest to drinking than I have since I've gotten here and when I told her this via text (i was on a 3 hour bus ride sitting next to a normie friend and couldnt call her) she gave me a pretty short response back and told me that going to a meeting and asking for help would be the right thing to do. She didn't follow up with me at all about it or text me back when I said "ok". ..Her nonchalant attitude seeming to not have the time and how slowly We are going through the steps is what make me want to find a new sponsor. She's really nice though and I think sensitive and I dont want to hurt her feelings. I also feel like a flake if I breakup with ANOTHER sponsor. But I feel like my sobriety is suffering By staying with her. ..I'm going to meet with her today finally and I think tell her my concerns and see how she responds. ..Thanks for letting me post here. I think I just needed to get my thoughts out somewhere but if anyone has anything related or advice I'd love to hear it.
----------immediate responses--------

There's no real way to do it right. Your sponsor is teaching the way they were taught and maybe assessing your readiness to progress to the next step. Now- they aren't a professional so they might not be right about your readiness- have you asked them about the pacing issues that you are experiencing? What have they said?..Are you avoiding the work? I constantly consider that for myself so I'd say it's a good thing to constantly consider. It's a relationship between peers so if they live the kind of sobriety you want to live it's a good place to start- doing the steps as they did. If you want something different look for something different. ..Other people will have other opinions and all are valid- the pamphlet on sponsorship is a good thing to read while you consider. Sponsorship isn't mentioned in the big book although they do mention going through the steps quickly. I also hear in share after share from people who have relapsed that they think it's because they hadn't accepted step 1... that makes a case for working it thoroughly (and my sponsor did that with me as well- lots and lots of writing and talking and thinking)..If it's not the right relationship find the right one it's not a marriage and as you grow what you need is going to change :) 
I think you are right in voicing your concerns to her. How she responds will be very telling as to whether you will want to stay with her or not. I find it is important to me just to stay completely current with somebody who has experience staying sober as an alcoholic. Just so that someone knows what I am thinking and what I am dealing with. So it's good you came on here just to send that out it's much healthier than bottling it up. It seems like you have dealt well with your experience so far... My sponsor makes little suggestions for me as well and sometimes doesn't respond the way I would like him to. But I find when I follow his suggestions I tend to get to a space that is beneficial for me and I am grateful for it later. That being said he almost always follows it up when I call him the next day unless he is going through something very distracting in his own life. It could be that she is going through something herself. I suppose you won't really know until you see her today. She might step up or you might step out. Just don't stop stepping! ..
Sponsors can be a bad thing. They can be draining. ..John Hopkins Med did an intereting study on sponsors you can probably find. They took a group of addicts and told half the group to get a sponsor half the group to refuse to work with a sponsor. Then they tracked their success. After a year the group without sponsors had a higher success rate (abstinence). ..I had to get rid of my sponsors because they were always begging me for stuff (money live with me for free etc.) - yet they were bug shot 12 steppers who were respected by the group. ..Be careful. .
Sponsors are just people.  Well alcoholics but alcoholics are just people so there you go.  Sounds like you've found out that 4 people in AA are actually people :)..They are not your servant.  They do not exist to perform in the manner you want or expect or demand.  They're just people who are trying to help.  Maybe ... maybe ... you should consider your role in these 4 relationships and see if you can be helpful to them while looking for someone who can help you?
The steps are mine to work not my sponsor's.  I do my research call him in the process or when I have questions and then we get together occasionally to discuss the step I'm on.  A sponsor's job is to guide someone through the process of working the steps not to do it for them...Along the same lines it's YOUR program.  If your sponsor is not working for you get a new one.  If your sponsor gets butt hurt that you want to change then you know they weren't right in the first place.  Anyone who truly cares about your recovery will want you to do what's best for you.  ..Be fearless thorough and kick some ass my friend.  The clock is ticking.
What are you looking for from your sponsor? As I understand it sponsors are simply people who've been there can try to share experience strength &amp; hope and can help you guide yourself through the steps. I'm not sure if this is you or not but I see all too many people looking at their sponsors like their sponsors are responsible for their sobriety or happiness. It's not their job. That's between you &amp; your HP. People give WAY too much weight to what a sponsor is IMO. Btw I have a sponsor and I sponsor other guys.
