-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/77c1yg/im_a_standup_comedian_in_aa/

Hi everybody -..I'm a professional stand-up comedian based in Minneapolis MN and a Friend of Bill. I've suffered from anxiety with bouts of depression my whole life. It's actually very common in comedians to have those types of issues as well as addiction issues... .I'm putting out a new comedy album that is really unique   it has lighthearted moments but touches heavy moments as well - my depression/suicidal thoughts relapsing sobriety and recovery. I have a big part just about AA and how crazy we are (in a good way). It's available for preorder now on iTunes and Amazon. You can read about it more here:. .http://www.laughspin.com/exclusive-listen-to-two-tracks-from-mike-brody-album-sell-me-a-bridge-out-oct-27/. .I'm super proud to be putting this out into the world and I think that anyone who has struggled with these issues with laugh and relate to the material.
----------immediate responses--------

I don't like recovery stand up comedians I think they sport too hard to be shocking. But I loved your set thst I listened to. You're engaging and have a great delivery too. I love how you were washing dishes on vicaden.  I wanted to ask u a question if don't mind can I pm you?
Hey Mike I randomly stumbled on this post still not quite sure how. ..First off congrats on your sobriety and you overcoming your addiction and depression. Life is brutal and unforgiving at times especially when we fight against ourselves. ..My question is as an atheist. How do you feel AA can improve their practices to welcoming others who get discouraged by the mention of God and using (in my opinion) a fabricated being as a source of strength rather than looking within ourselves? Ultimately it is the person who chooses to make a change. 
Sounds very cool! gonna check it out later when I can!
So much for the "anonymous" part of this scenario 
Hi Mike! Congrats on the sobriety and the upcoming album...While other commenters mentioned the 12th Tradition I wanted to bring up the 11th Tradition which states "...We need always maintain personal anonymity at the level of press radio and films."..This isn't in there to protect the individual AA member from being "found out" or because we should be shameful or secretive about our alcoholism or even our sobriety...It's there for the alcoholic that hasn't made it in yet and for the good of AA...What if some suffering alcoholic's only vision of an AA member is your stand up and he hates it and the way you portray it? What if he never comes to a meeting because of it? Or what if you get drunk and people that need AA see your relapse as proof "AA doesn't work."..There's a ton of other good reasons to follow the 11th Tradition including as an act of gratitude for what AA had given us...I suggest discussing this in meetings and maybe reading up on it in the 12&amp;12 and AA Comes of Age and Language of the Heart...I don't mean to rebuke you either. The only way I've learned the value of the Traditions is through the painful experience of breaking them and being taken to task. ..Again glad to have you among us as a fellow and congrats on the new album. 
Hey good stuff! I'm a budding wannabe comedian in the TC. Although I pulled out of my last show because I knew the host was going to ask the audience how many people were there to see me. After 3 years of Minnesota ice I just didn't want to face a silent room with a couple of sympathy claps...I don't know if you have heard the I Quit podcast with Jamie Lissow but it is a short 8 part podcast that interviews mainly sober comedians. It is one of the more interesting podcasts I have heard. There are several points where they discuss what it is like to work as a "recovery" comic...I am also of the crowd that thinks it is 2017 and it is time to do away with the stigma of addiction (so it's OK if people know who you are). ..
Mike - More power to you! Some of the most amazing AA speakers I know and have heard are by no means anonymous. So don't let those people get to you. Spreading the message and sharing your story is a great thing to do. I do hear a lot of people throw in that they are not speaking for or representing AA just so there is no confusion. Makes everyone simmer down a little ;)..Just my humble opinion but....It says nowhere in any literature that an individual is not able to identify themselves as a member of AA whenever they please. In fact there are some amazing AA members that make a living speaking on the AA circuit that in no way pretend to be anonymous. .It's the anonymity of others that we hold sacred and protect because it is their privilege and their right. We can share our stories as we see fit and identify as members of AA on an individual level. As long as it is perfectly clear that we do not represent or speak for AA there is no conflict of interest at all..As far as I'm concerned there are bigger things to worry about anyway.
