-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/77wan9/concerns_about_aa/

Alcohol has set me back for years. My grandfather and father had a huge problem with their drinking so i'm going to go on a whim here and say they passed on "the gene". It's been a struggle for me and has affected my relationships especially the one with my girlfriend who has stuck by my side for the last 3 years and put up with my drunken stupor. I've put myself in so many bad situations while drinking; situations that have given me so much guilt. I'm 27 years old and don't think I've ever gone more than a week or so without getting drunk. Typing this out really helps me realize how bad the situation has become how much money I've wasted and opportunities I've destroyed. I was recently prescribed Naltrexone which helps to stop the urges to drink. The side effects suck so I try not to take it. My concern with AA is the dropout rate I think it's comforting to go and speak with people who can relate to your situation but looking at the history and success rate it's something that turns me off. MY father is in AA and has been sober for over ten years but I'd like to consider him a dry drunk; it's a sad situation. I'm doing my best to stay off the sauce for a while and get my shit together and if I do ever decide to drink in the future I will utilize the Naltrexone I have. I have been reading about the "Sinclair Method". It's a very interesting read and the success rate is higher. To each their own ? 
----------immediate responses--------

What have you got to lose? ..I'll be the first to tell you that AA doesn't work. You do. Many people go to AA and put their lives back together. If you don't try it you definitively won't be one of them.
I'm a bit confused here.  The team you don't want to go to AA is that you might drop out of AA?..You think that a drug that eliminates the urge to drink will work after you've developed the urge to drink?  In order to do that you would need to make the decision not to drink after you develop the urge to drink.  That wouldn't work for me.  If I had that urge I'd specifically not take the drug so that I could drink.  ..AA works for those who follow the program as written in the big book of Alcoholics Anonymous...It's not about getting together and telling war stories about drinking.  It's about helping each other get and stay sober through the 12 steps.  ..If you think you can stay sober by not drinking I wish you luck...If you eventually decide you can't do it on your own or you want a happier more peaceful way of living AA will be there with open arms.  
so your father has never worked the steps ?
I've been before and it definitely helps a lot to hear other people going through the same thing
&gt; My concern with AA is the dropout rate I think it's comforting to go and speak with people who can relate to your situation but looking at the history and success rate it's something that turns me off...This is kinda weird to me.  How does one measure the success or "dropout" rate?  I mean without attendance rosters and log sheets and testing and so forth the best anyone can do is an assumption based on whatever they choose to base their assumptions on...Many people are court-ordered to AA so if they humor the court then stop going to AA are they a "dropout"?  How does one determine 'success'?  If someone goes to AA or tries the Sinclair method and decides it ain't for them and they try the other way and it works for them is that a 'failure' just because it didn't work for that particular person?..AA has very little to do with speaking with people who can relate although the fellowship is an interesting and beneficial side effect of the actual program.  The program is a dozen steps taken in order to recover from a hopeless state of body and mind.  It works if you work it is how it works :)
AA is 100% successful as far as I'm concerned. I've been sober longer than you are old. ..AA has helped millions get and stay sober. There is no way to measure the "dropout rate" because AA is anonymous. I don't go to meetings very often anymore but am happily sober. Am I a "dropout'?..The history of AA in my opinion is an inspiration. So we disagree. ..I'm sorry your dad does not act in a way that you consider appropriate for someone in recovery. That happens. ..AA is a fascinating group of men and women. Each one has a story. There are many roads to recovery but one journey. The 12 steps are practical tools that helped me live the happy sober life I have today...So you can understand why I think highly of AA. I hope you find your own path to recovery. 
He refuses to speak with me he can be very angry mean and an asshole. Treated me my mom and sister like shit our whole lives I just think he has a lot of emotional and mental baggage for him to handle and live a normal life. Maybe that is not the definition of a dry drunk ? 
What is your definition of a dry drunk ?
For those interested in the science of AA efficacy please look up Moos and Moos in Journal of Clinical Psychology 2006.  Participating in AA for 27 weeks during first year of recovery shows a significant positive effect on abstinence 16 years later.  ..What are the side effects of Naltrexone?
For me it's extreme nausea and fatigue. I
The sinclare method is a joke. Anyone who actually has addiction has undergone physical brain cha he's that arise because of genetic changes... look up fosb and delta fosb in Wikipedia. There's other systems involved but it doesn't matter much to get my point across.. his methods are so far from effective there's a lot of psychological stuff going on aa treats that effectively. ..The drop out rate is due to people like yourself being skeptical and hopefully people not like you who don't do the work or stop showing up before it works  good luck
I think it's important to ask yourself what you really want out of any treatment or support system. The beauty and genius of AA and the 12 steps is that they're about so much more than just stopping drinking. They're about living a good life filled with love fellowship and service. They're about strengthening your connection with the world and the people in it. They're about seeking truth and peace and atonement. They're about rebuilding the damage caused by your drinking both within yourself and in the world...For myself my drinking/substance use has lead to great suffering isolation and insanity. I have done horrible things. I have destroyed my life and forever impacted the lives of those around me. I cannot change this. However I will do whatever it takes to atone for my actions and to lead a life of purpose love and service. I truly believe that God willing AA will show me the way to do this. I have faith because I must...Maybe AA will work for you maybe it won't. But you should ask yourself what price you are willing to pay for the sake of drinking. You say your drinking has left you with feelings of guilt. How many more of these memories must you rack up and how much worse must they get before drinking is no longer worth it?..You can choose to stop this from happening. You can choose to fight. There is no one "right" path to healing but AA is a good one if you are willing to do whatever it takes...Whatever your decision I pray your path brings you to the destination you desire. Best of luck my friend.
The dropout rate for people coming in and then bouncing out of AA is really high. I did it often enough myself. Bounce in when the heat was on bounce out when the heat was off and I could drink again. It's an error to expect people who want to drink to stay in AA or those who really don't want to drink but don't want to be bothered doing the only thing AA offers as a way to recover from this thing. They most often don't stick either and the ones who do are not the happiest people you'll meet...So yeah anti-drinking drugs of some kind might be the way to go for you because of all the people who don't do AA for a variety of reasons. And because your dad doesn't make staying sober in AA look attractive to you. ..Glad my kid thought otherwise. He sobered up in AA at 20 years old when I was 20 years sober and has stayed sober for these last 15 years. I shudder to think what would have happened to his life if I'd made AA look unattractive or if he'd gotten wind of the terrible dropout rate somehow. Probably would have killed him...
The Sinclair Method doesn't treat alcoholism because alcohol is merely the symptom that the -isms present. IOW alcoholism isn't about drinking it's about the mental illness that causes the alcoholic to drink. If you only want to learn how to temper your alcohol intake AA is not for you. Likewise if all you want is to stop your drinking while keeping everything else in your life the same AA is not for you...I think (but I'm only guessing) that Naltrexone would be useful to break a downward drinking spiral but then again a real alcoholic would skip taking it when they wanted to really get drunk.
There's a book I can read that has and huge success just go to stopdrinking sub and check out their book on the subreddit 
Your account and post smells of astroturfing from that overseas outfit that sells the product you want the discussion to be about...Regardless people went to any lengths to get wasted so why not go to any lengths and try all the methods to sober up.
"Rarely have we seen a person fail who thoroughly follows our path" - should be read as "rarely has anyone thoroughly followed our path".  ..Many dropout without doing any step work and most by step 4 where they have to get honest about themselves.
I think you have an issue with your father not with AA ;-)
Whether or not someone else succeeds doesn't really matter does it? If you want to make something work you will.  It sounds like you understand that you're an alcoholic  but you have a hard time completely closing the door on drinking all together. I totally get that one too..I am someone who has been on both sides of the fence with AA. I am also someone who has taken Naltrexone to help me stay sober. (It's a great tool - not a solution.) After several years and three relapses and final long term sobriety this is what I have learned:.1 - AA works if you're willing to go to any lengths to stay sober. Not some time lengths. Not a lot of lengths. You have to go to an lengths. You have to give it all up. If you aren't there you aren't there. .2 - Dry drunks happen EVERYWHERE. It's all over the place. People think being sober and cleaning up will make you happy. That's not true. Happy takes a LOT of work. I've known people who have never had a drink that you'd swear are dry drunks. It's a life thing..3 - If it doesn't work for you that's fine. But just be honest with your motives. No matter what is said about retention or success AA is the most successful thing they've found. That includes medications too. It's the fellowship and support that make all the difference. So do or don't do that's your choice. But call it like it is...I relapsed because I didn't completely accept my lot. I wanted to be able to drink someday. That is never going to happen. Tried that theory three times with decreasing levels of failure. .Don't concern yourself with someone else's failure or success. It's yours you really need to be concerned about. And in my experience any solution that involves a drunk AND more booze isn't really a solution that applies to a true alcoholic..Take it for what it is. 
No worries 
Recovery from alcoholism is in the steps not the meetings. I would suggest you find a literature based meeting quickly work the steps clean up the wreckage of your past and work with others. ..I have not been dropping out for 23 years AA works fine for people who want and work for their recovery. 
Rates of people who relapse or drop out are nothing - they mean literally nothing.  It's so hard to get good statistics out of recovery because it depends on self-reporting...Honestly you've got to do whatever it takes for YOU.  If AA works for you - then go for it if SMART or this Sinclair Method (harm reduction) works - do it. ..All the statistics for recovery are abysmal - so you can only do whatever you can to keep yourself safe.
