-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/78p69w/cross_posting_from_stop_drinking_as_it_involves/

OK - all speech is a demand. No one can tell me to stop drinking no one can absolve me or say 'hey it's OK' - so i guess I'm looking for identification. If you read and recognise and can let me know that'd help. What I know doesn't help me is the pejorative 'oh grow up'/'man up'/'suck it up'. And maybe someone is in a similar position to me?...So i'm addicted to most things pleasurable - only one I've avoided (so far touch wood) is gambling. But psychedelics weed sex alcohol food computers........I live in a small village married - no kids...Stopped the drugs but sex and drinking continued. Went to AA - managed 2 months sober but relapsed. Started counselling weekly - good counsellor. Realised shame a big part of it. Difficult childhood and early 20s PTSD type stuff - not an excuse but definitely a trigger...Stopped drinking again. But the sex continued - very depressed felt AA not for me stopped going. I get fed up of people saying how happy they were and i was sober 6m and where was my happiness? I'd a sponsor and was up to Step 6 (telling in itself). I'd hate it when people said 'it's not a buffet you have to do it all' - no problem with the HP bit of steps/traditions to the letter but the big book - whilst wise in places is not the word of God - it's sexist and dated and full of holes. I felt i had to shut up couldn't speak out about that...Course it wasn't for me as I had a secret - sex. Stopped that last month with therapy as a start (I'm under no illusions I'll always be tempted). I then had a sexual hook up with a big book thumping member of AA - that proved to me at the time that it was full of shit. ..So that was 8 months ago. 3 months ago i lapsed back to drinking. Tried TSM sadly didn't work for me - side effects and just........missed the buzz! So OK every other day? Sure - then weekly? Sure! Then - screw it!..My drinking now is 'functional' - not to blackout or making an arse of myself or being belligerent. Just sad and lonely and trying to obliterate the existential sadness and void that I feel during the day. It's going to kill me either through liver disease or suicide - i drink 140U/week - so I know that will do it after a few years maybe sooner. My life is on hold. I feel like I have nothing to look forward to (cant have kids - big loss for me)..I'm extremely depressed. On antidepressants but they don't have a chance in hell of working if I'm drinking. ..So contacted my 'sponsor' - I put it in quotes to mean I hadn't spoken to him for 6 months - we met for coffee and I was glad I did. I'd chosen him for good reason...Me: The big book is NOT perfect it's written by a mortal so can't be!.Him: Who told you that?.Me: [Old timer] in a share.Him: It's bullshit it's full of holes.Me: So why does [old timer] keep saying 'it's not a buffet and I should do exactly what the big book says?'.Him: Who told you that?.Me: [Oldtimer] - promise - more than once occasion.Him: Tell him to fuck off people like that are toxic...He also said going to AA enabled him to have the happiest times of his life - outside of AA. This floored me - I had thought AA meant you could only have fun with other AA people and if you left you were doomed - so therefore it was a cult. ..But here I am - drinking and miserable. I'm going to meet a potential new sponsor on Friday but as my drinking is at the 'not yet' stage I'm still holding off - a world of pain awaits when i stop. But. Also there's the potential to live my life fully - I have a great spouse (not addict) a great job I have great skills..........I'm just terrified of stopping and people telling me to 'suck it up' as I have a strong belief my mood will get worse when i stop. Also I'll be loathing the people who can still drink. I read 'Naked Mind' and sure it's good but it's like a parent saying 'cos i told you so' - my belief (i hope it's false) is that life in recovery sucks. You're like Woody Allen on the train in Stardust Memories - in a monochrome world looking over at people having fun and I just can't join in..........If I give up I know I can't do it alone - I need to go to AA and 'suck it up' a little bit. I get sad that drug addicts can't attend and that few people will understand sexual addiction. I'm fucking terrified. I know I have to stop but I'm so scared...And that's my story - no happy ending........just where I'm at . If you've read this far thank you :)...
----------immediate responses--------

I hear your struggle. Been and still going through it myself. Sober 2 years now and still have daily struggles. I think about suicide daily and have soooooo many other addictions besides alcohol.... yes sex is one of them...There are very few "true blue" alcoholics I've met in the rooms. A majority of us have more than one addiction. Drug addicts sex addicts whatever addicts can go to AA. Most rooms wouldn't care whether you said you were an alcoholic and an addict but some do. The rule of thumb that I follow is... "Respect the house". At AA I say an alcoholic At NA I say I'm an addict. Just respect the house and start your healing...May God bless you and keep you until then.
Wow what a unique story you have there!  The part about having a backstory and not wanting to be told what to do and especially the parts about how you've tried things that didn't work and you've got 'other issues' going on.  Totally unlike every story ever told!..Nah just kidding...You're just full of yourself is all.  Get over that and you'll be fine :)
AA is AA. Not perfect full of really fucked up people recovering at different rates. It can be pretentious and the lack of structure and rules can give people room to take advantage of others. Still it saved my life and I couldn't live without out. Even better I can put something back and help it be more like I think it should. I believe the Big Book was inspired but that's a long ways from being sacred. It has many of the defects you describe yet there is a lot of truth in there that can save a life...Be patient and remember that nobody speaks for AA as a whole. Alcoholics are either sharing our experience strength and hope which is valuable or our opinions which are somewhat less valuable.
Hope things work out with the new sponsor. Getting through those first few years can be challenging. But it sure beats 'drinking and miserable'.
There are many alternatives to AA but AA is the most available and it's free.  Recovery from addictions and alcoholism is hard just like recovery from most serious diseases.  You think this is bad consider radiation and chemo.  Sober life has been vibrant and colorful for me.
Just keep fighting the fight whatever that looks like. .The comment above was a little harsh but be prepared to hear things you don't want to. I'm coming up on 2 years and this past year has been the most humbling year of my life thus far. Dropping the ego does not mean you are accepting defeat. Dropping the ego is just you acknowledging that you aren't perfect nor are you God therefore you can proceed to acknowledge that other people places and things aren't perfect (including AA). .AA definitely has some holes some grey areas use them and learn from them. Listen to your sponsor. FINISH the steps. help the still sick and suffering. And lead with love. .AA is the foundation from there the world is full of endless possibilities. .We are all exactly where we are supposed to be mentally spiritually physically. .God bless. 
