-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/78qxs3/i_admit_i_am_powerless_over_alcohol_surrender/

I've been to lots of meetings I am the guy that used by AA as a dumping ground or would go to prove to others  I was going to get sober basically I was a human chair warmer with lots of beginner chips...I didn't understand bottom now things are way worse I am a broken man crying and I get it... It hurts so bad but just now was the first time I admitted my thinking be gets me nowhere I give up I am done...An old timer asked after a relapse what changes this time I said I am going to go to more meetings he said wrong answer I hope you don't die before you found the right one. Then he walked off and didn't answer my follow up question. I get it now! I am getting a sponsor today if possible by and begging for step work ASAP. I surrender and I pray I get the promises.
----------immediate responses--------

Glad to hear bud! AA shouldn't be a secret and that "old timer" should have been more helpful sounds like he was gatekeeping; as you described it...Really it's just willingness and open minded-ness. Most people aren't willing until things get bad. And then after that in my view  it's all about finding a higher power examining and discarding my ego then filling the void with spirituality. The steps are there simply to show me how. It only takes some work and honesty. The promises just happen after that...The higher power is not a huge hurdle. Mine is love and unity. No more and no less. 
Update: I have a sponsor he bought me a Big Book and asked me to read this how works.  He suggested 90 in 90 and I meet with him the morning and we talk tonight by phone. I have the willingness I am going to do this I partly wrote this post so I can remember the pain of today.
You've paid your admission fee. Enjoy the ride.
Desperation was the great motivator for me. I wish you well one day at a time. 
Sounds like a great first step.  Best wishes for a vigorous recovery.
