-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/78vhdc/ive_been_on_a_long_dry_drunk_and_im_looking_to/

Greetings /r/AA..I really just need to unload I hope that's alright..I live in a city in Mexico that's about an hour outside of Guadalajara. My city isn't nearly as developed and diverse as Guadalajara therefore the only "AA" meetings that are in my city are utter shit. &gt;1 hour there's no organization everyone wants to hear themselves talk so you'll have a speaker at the podium (that's how old school these meetings are) talk AT you for 20 minutes... Then the next guy. Who says the same things are the speaker before him. Ad infinitum. Needless to say I don't attend these meetings ..I've been sober for a little over three and a half years and for the first year of my sobriety (In California) I hit at least one meeting every day for 7 months. I never felt better healthier and more whole in my entire life than I did in that 7 month period. After that I moved to Mexico to be with my family and work in our family business and I stopped going to meetings for lack of availability (at least that's my excuse) ..I had been gradually feeling myself slip back into my old patterns of thinking. My cynicism towards life was back. My fear of abandonment returned wreaking havoc in my love life. My patience and willingness to forgive were gone. I chalked all this up to "Well I'm working as a manager in my family's business. Of course I'm going to be a bit drawn and overextended I have more responsibility today than I did when I first got sober and could attend meetings every day." I simply wasn't prioritizing my recovery and only by my Higher Power's grace have I not relapsed. ..I recently got engaged in September and this time that's supposed to be happy and joyful has been completely overwhelming. Between wedding planning and just plain old learning how to be engaged I've just completely run out of steam. My fianc e and I have planned for her to move from her city to mine (about a 6 hour drive) and she's expressed interest in working in my business which is awesome. Last night she says how she enjoys an active and self-motivated lifestyle and maybe she would like to go to school to get a certification to be able to translate as a side project after we're married. Being an alcoholic with no recovery program my mind went from 0 to 100 in the blink of an eye and instantly thought "Oh fuck I'm going to be stuck in this marriage where my wife isn't going to make time for me; why the hell would she willingly extend herself that much when she already has a job and a career lined up; ugh I'm going to be second priority and this isn't what I signed up for maybe she's just using me to springboard into a new chapter in her life; I'm only 25 and already my marriage is going to be a dead bedroom because she won't have time for me; I have things I'd like to do too but when you get married priorities change doesn't she know that?"..All this because she said maybe she'd like to continue a hobby and do something she enjoys. It hasn't even been set in stone or decided. We aren't even married. That isn't normal..So after I had finished almost having an anxiety attack I went onto my balcony smoked a cigarette (don't tell her lol) and prayed. I prayed long and hard to my Higher Power realizing that I had wandered and gone astray. I needed my God to bring me back to Himself to break down the walls of bullshit that I had slowly and subconsciously been building up around myself during this time that I haven't gone to meetings. I need to be renewed rejuvenated and refreshed. I need spiritual strength because every time I've  tried to rely on my own strength I've failed. I am powerless ..I researched English speaking meetings in Guadalajara and I found one that I'm going to attend tomorrow. Sure it's less than idea to have to drive an hour and a half to a meeting. Sure I'll have to leave work early. Sure I'll probably be able to only make one meeting a week. But I need to cling to recovery like a fucking life preserver because I'll drown in this world if I don't have it. I need to prioritize my own emotional sobriety and my own recovery above all else because without it I wouldn't have any of the other wonderful blessings and gifts that I have received while sober. I need to take responsibility and own my sobriety. I am not fixed I need continual maintenance ..If you've gotten this far thank you for letting me vent. Have a great 24 guys
----------immediate responses--------

I have found that Skype meetings are a really very cool alternative as well.  You might want to consider some of these online options as alternatives.
Way to show up for your recovery. You're seeking out options. I'm sure that'll work out.
Hope you are well. Intherooms.org might be of some use to you. I haven't used it yet myself but certainly plan to as I'm a little restricted with getting to meetings. Take care. 
