-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/79r0kp/sober_and_alone/

I went to rehab in February and have relapsed once since. It was about 5 months ago. Ever since I got out of treatment I haven't been able to hang out with my old friends and haven't made any new ones. I live with my parents and I'm 24. They let me use their car but only if they approve of where I'm going. I understand that.  I got a new job a few weeks ago (first job since rehab) in an attempt to make friends. It turns out there's not much talking in the position I'm in. I've been so lonely it makes me depressed and want to drink or die. My self esteem is so low lately. I'm a trans guy but I'm ashamed of all of that. I haven't had sex in over 2 years. I find meetings boring as hell but I'm starting to consider going to LGBT meetings to see old rehab "friends" and try and make new ones. The thing is that is stopping me is my depression accompanied with being exhausted from work. All I wanna do is lay in bed and wait until the next day. Does it get better? I know I'm not strong enough to be around people who are drinking and I'm also ashamed to have it come out that I'm an alcoholic. Can I get some advice or reassurance? This really sucks
----------immediate responses--------

I'm in the same bout friend wise I kind of feel like I have nobody to talk to about shit because my heads somewhere else because I'm an alcoholic and I am trying to stay sober. It sucks though people who don't have the problem could never understand how we think and feel. I suggest you go to aa meetings and try to find some for your age group. The meetings help but I'm struggling to find one for people my own age but I definitely recommend that!
You as well goodluck :)
I am sorry you are struggling. You sound depressed. Maybe talking to a doctor is something to consider. ..I could never have stayed sober without lots of help. I continued my therapist after rehab and went to meetings. Because of the stress of being trans having a therapist would give you someone to talk with and hopefully reduce your shame. ..Alcoholism is not a moral issue. If you are sober be proud of being a recovering alcoholic. I would rather be known as a recovering person than a drunk or an addict.  ..Going to LGBT meetings is a great idea! ..Thank you for posting. You might also find /r/stopdrinking helpful. Check it out. 
Hiya Buddeh! :) I'm not ashamed that I am an alcoholic in recovery. I'd much rather be known as a member of AA than a drunk! :) When I was lonely I went to a bunch of meetings. I would ask familiar faces for their phone numbers. I would start calling people daily. I would start asking people what meetings they are going to then asking if I could ride to the meeting with them. Then I would start inviting the more familiar people to do stuff outside of a meeting. In other words build a network! It's so easy in AA to build a sobriety/friendship network. Almost everyone doesn't mind expanding their network some. 
If you find the right meeting it will feel like finding your tribe it WILL be finding your tribe. You'll start looking forward to meetings and make friends you want to spend time with. You just have to put in time finding the right meeting. ..I relate to the way that you feel. Meetings and working the steps helped me with shame and self acceptance too. 
What step are you currently working on?
&gt;  I find meetings boring as hell ..Are you working the steps?
I'm thinking you're probably better off compared to drunk surrounded by 'friends' and on your way to wherever your alcoholism will take you if you let it...So dig this: everything that seems insurmountable now probably is unless you actually do something.  Kinda makes sense eh?   So go find a meeting!  Meet people!  Get someone to help you with the steps!  Become the solution you're not seeing now.  Look forward to the day you can look back on today and think "yeah I sure am glad I got the hell out of that rut" :)
The people who know how you are feeling are at the meetings. Seek out the LGBT meetings if that is where you know other alcoholics. Is there someone there who can tell you about working the program while starting T? A lot of people are saying you've nothing to be ashamed about in being an alcoholic and they are right! We are all alcoholics here. But in response to you saying you are ashamed of being a trans man I'd like to reaaaalllyyy underscore: you've nothing to be ashamed of. And I'm willing to bet that the longer you work the program the more you see for yourself what sobriety AND A PROGRAM can do for you you will find out how to love yourself for the man that you are and the journey that brought you here. Good luck to you. We are all rooting for you. We really are. 
