-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7baxzq/im_really_struggling_tonight_i_want_to_go_to/

I need some words of encouragement. I haven't had a drink in about 4 days and frankly I don't want a drink but residual problems from my constant relapsing are weighing heavy on me right now. ..A little background. My drinking got really heavy about two years ago about a handle of vodka a day. It was a huge strain on my relationship with my wife. Not for me I didn't care. It was tough for my wife. I did 6 weeks of outpatient in February of last year and bought a bottle on my way home from my graduation. I hid it for about 2 months before my wife said "fuck it I don't care." She's never really been to invested in my recovery because I wasn't either. Earlier this year I went back to hiding it getting caught every couple of weeks. ..July of this year she had enough and demanded I go to an inpatient treatment center. I did for 30 days and managed to stay sober for about 6 weeks going to meetings twice daily and working a part time job when I'm capable of much more. I was starting to see those promises the big book talks about but it wasn't enough for me. I had to have a drink. She's caught me numerous times since then threatened divorce took away my credit cards and any access to money aside from my paycheck from my part time job. ..Later I lost my job because I didn't go in one day and I was on a provisional basis because my boss knew I was an alcoholic. I got home that day and told her that I would bust my ass and get a job within a week and I did. I got two job offers (one of which I started today) and I'm going to take the other one once all my background checks go through. I'm getting back to working in an insurance office with pretty good pay. If anything losing the job lit a fire under my ass. Know I know that this little bit of success doesn't erase years of putting her through hell but the way she treats me is starting to wear on me. It's like I don't even want to try because regaining her trust and getting our marriage back to where it was is going to take forever. I don't know if my emotional state can take it much longer. I love her more than anything in the world but I don't know if I can hold on to my sanity much longer. I just want to go to sleep and not wake up. I'm too chicken shit to kill myself but it hurts so much to live like this. I know that if she leaves me I'll drink myself to death within weeks. ..I'm feeling worthless even though things are going well in some aspects of my life. ..I guess to wrap it up I know I deserve the way she treats me but I can't even get a "Hey good job on getting out there and getting not one but two jobs." It's just harrassment and knocking me down. I just need some encouragement.
----------immediate responses--------

Things will get better. I lost my children and it hurt so bad to be without them. Especially without drugs and alcohol to escape the pain. I just pushed through that shit and didn't drink sometimes crying myself to sleep and holding on for dear life. It just took some time for the outside to reflect my new inside. .Tomorrow will be a little better the next day more so until you're through it. 
Steps man. The answer for me is always in the steps. Just got home from my homegroup where a friend shared that there was a solution to everything in the 164 pages of Alcoholics Anonymous. And I agree. Not meetings... the steps. They seem designed for exactly this sort of thing. 
It gets easier for real. I used to hate hearing that but it does and it will. Message me if you want to just say hey and chat I'm up
Hang in there man .. I'm going through something similar ... my girlfriend I grew up with left me last month I was gonna propose to her three days before I went on another bender... this past year has been horrible beyond measure and now trying to stay sober and better myself without her is the greatest challenge... I only have 1 week again today we just have to stay strong and work our sobriety the best we can and accept the things we can do 
Hang in there bud. I have social issues and depression. I thought I could never quit. But I kept on going to meetings and telling ppl. My story. I let ppl. Know exactly how I was feeling. It helps. Just get those phone numbers. It sucks feeling vulnerable and will be awkward but it will get better for you.  And call if you need help. You can message me here. I can try to answer or listen. ..I dont judge. ..Regarding your wife: let her know that you are trying. I dont know your situation. Nor am I going to pretend I do. But what I do know is that my spouse was the same way. Addiction is a bitch. I wouldnt wish it on anyone. Addiction destroys freedom and relationships. You have the potential to live your life without addiction just go to AA and tell your story to anyone that will listen. Or a therapist? But I prefer AA because it is free. Ask for a sponsor. It helps. If my simple ass can quit drinking I would think you can too...Your wife sounds like she wants immediate results but you need to work on yourself first. Once you work on yourself you can improve other relationships after. Thank you and good luck.
