-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7bflg6/choosing_a_fellowship/

To try to make a long story short:..Cannabis is my drug of choice with alcohol as relatively infrequent substitute.  I originally got clean &amp; sober in 1997 at age 20 and had 15 years in Narcotics Anonymous...Life got good house wife 2 big careers 3 little kids.  I got complacent and relapsed 3+ years ago.  Got caught admitted to my wife last week and reached out to a friend who I knew outside the rooms and went to my 1st AA mtg last week because that's his fellowship...Questioning now in which fellowship I'll continue my recovery.  In one sense it's all the same.  With the way my life is now (see wife kids 2 careers) AA seems a lot easier logistically.  As case in point:  there is 1 noon NA meeting in San Francisco today and it's a women's meeting far from my office.  There are ten noon(ish) AA meetings a couple pretty convenient. ..On the flip side at the AA meeting I went to last night a sentence like this was literally in the meeting opener: "If your problem is primarily with a substance other than alcohol we recommend you try a different 12-step fellowship but hope you hear something useful here."  And it also seems potentially awkward if I'm eventually asked to speak at an AA meeting and my story is not primarily about alcohol...What say you AAs?
----------immediate responses--------

Uh well I think for me alcohol was my "drug of choice". But I learning that it was just a symptom of my unchecked anxiety and add.What is weird is that I see cannabis as a medicine that I use time to time to keep my add in check along with meditation and step work and counseling. Living a lifeatyle geared at improvement and maturing emotionally. I mean for me AA stepwork is a means to my self awareness and discovery. It also helps to reach out and interact with others in the fellowship. .Does this sound familiar? So I think for your case the fellowship/support is what you are looking for. And who can blame you in this world?..I think until you find a cannabis-anonymous group or a smart rehab group online etc. it is perfectly ok to announce yourself in AA as simply an "recovering addict"
Every group has it's own group conscience. My home group's preamble includes "we recognize the dually addicted alcoholic but remember this is a meeting of AA" ..If you get asked to speak in AA- let the asker know that your story is not about alcohol- they may thank you and choose someone else instead... you don't have to speak if you dont think your story fits the singleness of purpose...Have you tried Marijuana Anonymous? They have a couple of meetings a week in San Francisco a smaller fellowship but a nice one...Personally I'm primarily an alcoholic who is active in AA but I will mix it up with MA or CA meetings also it's good to connect with people who understand wherever they congregate. 
They've been arguing about that since the 1940s..
r/leaves 
If you go to a closed AA meeting you will often hear that in the meeting preamble. But the only requirement for membership is a desire to stop drinking- that's our third tradition. So if you have a desire to be free of mind altering substances and that includes alcohol then you are welcome.  If you don't want to say you're an alcoholic in a closed meeting you can say that you have a desire to stop drinking...I think you should opt for whatever fellowship you feel a part of or where you get a connection and you will show up to consistently.  Wherever we can be rigorously honest is where we will thrive. If that's AA great! If it's in another twelve step group great! AA will always be here for you if you should need us.
Check online what type of meetings are in your area. Most meetings in my area are "open" (even "Big Book" and "step"). In my area a lot of addicts come to the "open discussion/Big Book/step" meetings and are treated as an equal. They come to these because NA meetings are far and few. The "closed" meetings around here tend to have more of the attitude you mention...I am an alcoholic who used as well. My need and damage was caused with alcohol. That's how I chose my halls. ..The truth is that the 12 steps whether AA NA or any of the other 12 step programs are based around the same logic. You can not stay sober on your own there is something bigger out there than you cleansing your own inner spirit and helping others with the same issue. Whatever you choose will be fine. All of our stories are the same. We drank/used/gambled/sexed/ate we lost we found help in something bigger than us...Best wishes.
Alcohol was not my "drug of choice" -- but it started with alcohol and if I start to drink again I KNOW that alcohol will lead me back to my drug of choice...I go to AA meetings for this reason and others. I also live in an area where people with my exact situation are very common probably more "non-alcoholic-doc" people in AA meetings than actual "pure" alcoholics.
Alcohol was also not my DOC but I choose to attend AA meetings sometimes as my relationship with alcohol was never healthy and I have the desire to not drink (which I did when my DOC was unavailable).  When I'm at AA I keep my sharing alcohol related...    My homegroup is NA though.
Not many on here seem to care but singleness of purpose is a real thing. So is unity. AA has taken a position on this and it's in the pamphlet  Problems other then alcohol . - AA is for the recovery from Alcoholism. Not drug addiction. 
Interesting topic.  I'd say respect the house you enter eh?  If you go to a bowling alley don't expect miniature golf right?  So if you go to AA respect that AA is for alcoholics to help other alcoholics achieve sobriety.  If that doesn't sound like your thing then ... well ... then you still have to respect the house you enter eh?..Currently my "home home group" is seriously dysfunctional.  It no longer carries a message of hope and recovery from alcoholism because among many reasons the idea that people identify is "alcoholic and addict" and share about their drug usage is tolerated  on a regular basis.  No effort is ever made to tell these people "if you need to work on your drug past then go to NA" or some such.  Now my home-home-group is broken.  Not cool eh?..Respect the house you enter is all I got :)
Try a different AA meeting; I know plenty of people who are active in the SF AA fellowship whose drug of choice was marijuana.  
I go to both. I just respect the house which I'm in. It's all the same message. Don't start over thinking it or you will think yourself back into addiction. Keep going and getting better...May God bless you and keep you till then
There was tons of NA on the east coast where I started my recovery. Now I'm in Seattle and running into similar problems of tons of AA and very few AA meetings. .I am now working the AA program for different reasons but still feel more at home in NA even though most of my friends in AA used any and all drugs. .I read a pamphlet on this once and I definitely qualify as a AA member. .That stinks the one meeting makes that reading because I know that would make me feel uncomfortable and like I don't belong which many of us felt most of our lives. I wonder if Bill W would have avoided that meeting because of his use of pills? 
