-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7bih91/5_years_sober_and_im_still_really_struggling/

Like the title says I have quite a bit of time but it hasn't really gotten better for me. I know I was drinking in a majorly problematic way when I quit. But part of me wonders if it was just youth and a shitty pattern. Am I really an alcoholic? Being around people who drink and do drugs makes me feel so left out and jealous and even when I'm not around people using I wish I could. For my wife it's a hard no. She doesn't want to take the risk and I don't want to lose her so I won't drink but I just wish I could feel good about that decision. ..I hear people in meetings say I was ready. I never wanted to drink again. I had enough. I guess my question is for those of you that didn't feel that way how do you get okay with it? 
----------immediate responses--------

And if she gave you her permission to drink/use what would you do?..I don't know your story so I'll ask...based on what life was like and how you felt when you drank often is that something you can stand to go through again?
Did you work the steps with a sponsor?..Maybe an eval for depression would be a wise idea. ..Why did you stop drinking in the first place?
I  got sober in undergrad and went back and forth on whether it was youth or real- stayed sober no matter what...Being sober has given me options and I'm not willing to risk losing them because I feel left out of situations. Every feeling is temporary and I'm sure you know that too from your 5+ years..The rough times come and go but trudging this road is 100% worth it because I don't know if I'd ever have the wherewithal to come back if I left.....Your experience stay sober through this time WILL benefit others..Thanks for being a part of my sobriety today!..
It's really common for this to come up at about 5 years. There's a thing that some of the old old-timers in my group say: "The farther away I am from my last drink the closer I am to the next." Another one that gets me is "I keep coming to meetings so I can see what happens to people who don't go to meetings." ..I can really only tell you about my own experience though. Like you I wondered and thought I was somehow different. And I ended up going out briefly after almost two years. By briefly I mean like 6 weeks. That thing they say about picking up right where you left off? It was absolutely true for me. It took about 3 days and lasted for 2 months from mid-November until mid-January. The holidays were not so very festive that year. I am incredibly fortunate that my family Loves me unconditionally and got me to rehab. With the rate I was going I am convinced fortunate to just be alive. Of course it's not always easy but in the days since I have never ever - not even once - regretted my sobriety. Usually all it takes is remembering exactly how miserable I was during those six weeks. I know that my disease is part of me and it lives inside me. It wants to kill me and it is patient. I must always remember that. The voice will probably never entirely go away; my work is to keep it as quiet as possible...All the best to you.
For one I'd say stop hanging out with people who drink or use. Second sometimes you have to go back out to be ready to come all the way in. You sound like you don't have the gift of desperation. If you never had it then you may have to go back out... If you had it at one point but lost it then you have a choice: Either stop fantasizing about how great it could be get a commitment go to 90 in 90 do some H&amp;I work and recommit or go back out and see where it takes you. This shit is life and death. It sounds like you aren't in the middle of the herd and your alcoholism is dragging you to the edge and you're about to get picked off.  
From my perspective i think you answered your own question...Because isn't the whole point of recovery and living and acknowledging that i am an alcoholic based on realizing that i will never be okay with it? ..Anyone who fully got over it is lying. You can put systems in place and tools to work on yourself through the program and other avenues but you will still have to live with the 0.001% of discomfort. That is why i am an alcoholic and other people are not...My recovery has been about taking responsibility for my narrative and being very careful about setting expectations for my life that are based on someone else's experience. ..What is my definition of peace of happiness? Will drinking ever get me closer to that? ..Nope - Been there done that failed completely. ..I needed to have an authentic experience of genuine gratitude for being an alcoholic before i could let go of a large part of this feeling you describe. Fortunately i haven't had to go back out (yet) to find it. And i hope you don't have to as well. Recovery is more than AA and the rooms and the books - it is a journey through life.
Have you worked the steps out of the book?..
I was told early on that once I put the drink down and got it out of my system my problem is no longer about drinking but it's about my stinking thinking. My mind is a terrible thing. I try very hard not to go in there by myself: I get mugged when I do..    A couple of others have already said go back to the meeting get a sponsor. Work the steps. Untreated alcoholism can kill us.
The first thing I heard you say is that being around people who drink and do drugs makes you feel left out.  Why are you hanging around people who are loaded when you're in recovery? Man I'd want to get loaded to if I hung out with the same people I did that stuff with. Unless I have an entirely valid reason for being in places like that today I don't hang out with those crowds. I run with sober humans or normal humans who support my recovery...The next thing I heard is that you haven't worked the steps all the way through- there is your solution.  If you haven't given this thing a try completely then you aren't going to get the results. Normal people don't get sober and go to meetings for five years- they don't have to do that. If you have this thing the steps are the solution to feeling better...The last thing I saw on the thread is that you stopped getting loaded because of your wife.  While that's a good end result and all it's a flawed motive. You stopped in order not to lose her. You didn't do it for you- or because you really wanted things to change (or did you?) - it's maybe worth an honest look at that situation with a sponsor. And maybe a recommitment to stay sober- for YOU...I hope you find what you're seeking and I hope you decide to stay.  It's much easier to stay.
I also wondered the same thing many times and went back out many times. Each time was worse than the relapse before it. I kept trying to drink normal for nearly ten years in and out of aa. It culminated this past summer with several trips to the hospital a suicide attempt an extremely embarrassing situation at work and a week long stay in a state mental hospital. Normies don't wonder if they have drinking problems and they don't go to AA imho. This time around I'm very seriously working the steps and am almost all the way through them. Strange things are happening. The promises are coming true! It's nearly magical. Today I have 90 days and will celebrate with my dog and my wonderful sponsor. My hope is that people like me hit rock bottom so that people like you don't have to. 
The thing that really helps me is my service work. I bring a meeting into a detox once a month and chair multiple meetings a week at different places. Seeing and hearing how this disease affects the lives of people makes me grateful for my sobriety everyday. ..Notice I said "grateful for"... not "fearful for". I don't fear the drink anymore cause I don't want to drink. I am grateful for what sobriety has given me...Be grateful for still being married and having a wife. My alcoholism took that away from me :(..May God bless you and keep you until then..
I got C/S the first time when I was 19.  I relapsed when I had 15 yrs clean thinking maybe it was an adolescent phase.  Within two years I was broke homeless divorced twice miserably lonely completely strung out and suicidally depressed.  It took years (like 6) to put together any kind of relationship with my son who was 12 when I picked up.  It took years for me to find recovery again. ..I have about 80 days.   I'm 49.   Maybe it wasn't an adolescent phase.  
I felt exactly like this after 10 months and said 'sod it' - I felt so depressed. Tried weed but tolerance up quickly to that and risky buying it..Tried TSM - no fun so sacked that off. Just drank. At first fine then days between drinks quickly shortened and number of drinks went up.  Funny how within a month or so I was now severely depressed and suicidal..I was having therapy this whole time which was helpful. Soon I came to realise how much I hated myself. Really hated myself - for many reasons - I wasn't just an alcoholic - I was an addict - sex food drugs spending alcohol - you name it...Thankfully reached out - in the end by being vulnerable and telling people how much I hated myself I started to forgive myself - I use that in the present tense I work on it every day...The best reason to stop ALL addictions and re-join AA? To get to know myself - the good and the bad. .I asked people about the program and discovered nothing and no one is perfect - the program isn't perfect. I'm not. No one is. Only my higher power is...As long as I do the steps follow the traditions and go to meetings...if people tell me they're just perfectly happy all the time and preach and bang on about what I should and shouldn't do....I listen but am aware they may not be right. I'll try it and talk about it. My sponsor is great - they admitted they hate bits of it - but they go to AA to live a life outside of AA...Take what you need and leave the rest behind. If people are hard line - screw them it's your own personal recovery - make it how you need it - just do Step 1 perfectly...So my questions to myself? Do I like myself? If not why not? What about other addictions and behaviours?.I know if I drink now I will move further away from who I am and knowing that person.......
I sponsor two guys who have under a year of sobriety but had over 5 years each in the past. I'm sure either would be willing to talk with you if you'd like. ..They found nothing's changed and it still sucks "out there" and that's why they're back in the rooms. The absolute misery on their faces &amp; in the voices during those first meetings back has kept a bunch of us sober I'll tell you that!
For me - between 5-6 years - I really got messed up mentally. ..See... I had the outside kinda fixed (decent job bills paid and was even driving a vehicle manufactured in the same decade I got to drive it!).  ..Then I'd 'compare'.  .Or think maybe it wasn't so bad..And one of the most scary things I noticed... and that was when other's drank - and even relapsed... I was jealous. ..So what did I do?  I started volunteering at places outside of AA...I cleaned stalls at a place in Arizona that did horse therapy with disabled children. ..I did park cleanups.  .I got a hobby (and an amazing collection of vintage poker chips to prove it!) ..I started camping.  I started doing day trips to small towns I had never stopped while driving through - and took my son  there for ice cream...After I kind of fixed the big stuff - I felt a little 'tricked' by sobriety. .It wasn't all that fun to be all grown up bored and responsible. .(and then I was 40 years old!) ..For me... if I want joy.  I have to find it.  I have to make it.  I have to do things that piqued my heart soul mind and imagination...Been sober a long time now.  22 years.  And when I get 'bored' with recovery - I just find non-alcoholic ways to fill my life with joy again.  ..That's what I did! 
you quit for a reason go back and relive that day .
