-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7bj5bp/kind_of_frustrated/

My wife and I have been struggling for the last few years. In July she decided that I was an alcoholic and she started to go to Alanon meetings. I will admit that I was drinking a lot. Almost every day as soon as my kids went to bed I would drink until I got sleepy and would go to bed. Since she has told me how bad this bothers her I have stopped drinking. My wife has been struggling with her mental health and has been through a number of medications. She had anxiety and ocd. She has really struggled with me and the kids. If I try and point out what I feel she is doing wrong it turns into a huge fight. I often find myself exasperated and confused because she often ends up telling me that she is frustrated with me and how my drinking destroyed our family and no one know about it but everyone knows about her struggles...I am very worried that she has hung my drinking on all of our problems. I never drove drunk I never got angry and on a handful of occasions argued with her while I was drunk. Never in front of the kids. I am so worried that when me not drinking doesn't produce the desired result she will flame out even worse. Her stress and anxiety is out of control and there is no talking to her about what is going on. I am so confused and scared. She has tried a number of meds over the past few years and none have worked. The one I felt worked the best she was moved off of because her psych wanted to try something better. I feel blamed for all of the problems in our marriage and I am willing to ride that out but I what she has been telling me about Alanon I feel like she is planning on my drinking to return and finish off our marriage. 
----------immediate responses--------

&gt; In July she decided that I was an alcoholic and she started to go to Alanon meetings...Lots of people decide someone else is an alcoholic and they've got not one clue about what being an alcoholic really means.  Drank a lot?  So what ... lots of people have drank a lot then not drank because they ain't alcoholics...&gt; Since she has told me how bad this bothers her I have stopped drinking...Yeah like that.  An alcoholic of the type who needs AA (or any similar program) will not just stop drinking.  It is utter hell to even try.  Having said that and not having a clue about anything it sounds like she's crazy and it sounds like it won't hurt or help you to go to AA and check it out.  Go to open meetings and be honest about why you're there.  If you find you can relate then maybe you're an alcoholic who happened to stop before all control was lost.  If you can't relate you'll get an hour or two away from crazyness and that don't sound totally bad eh?
This seems like pretty good advice. But regardless of if you can relate or not at meetings I'm sure there's guys there that have gone through a similar situation and can offer some help. Best of luck. .Sorry to hear your in this situation it sounds very hard. 
What are you looking for from us? I see a good rant and I always appreciate a good rant but I don't see any questions.
This sounds like a relationship problem. Have you seen a couples counselor? 
