-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7by40f/desperate_to_begin/

I am chomping at the bit like a madwoman...craving not alcohol...but to begin the step work. This is my 2nd serious attempt at working the program and I am (maybe too) eager to start. I have been going to meetings looking for a sponsor...but not one soul has resonated with me. ..A year ago I first tried the program. I guess then I didn't really understand it all. I have a much bigger perspective now after a year of trying desperately to remain sober only to repeatedly relapse every month month and a half. I finally surrender that I am an alcoholic and I need help. I know I cannot go at this alone and be successful. ..During my first attempt I got a sponsor. She was 24 and I am 30. We had a lot in common and clicked. We were both exotic dancers. (Very rare to meet other dancers in recovery all I know are actively using) We started reading the BB and talking about the program and she had a lot of direction and information. At about our 4 or 5th meeting her boyfriend and her broke up. Our meetings became about THAT. I stopped going to group meetings because I felt normal...she got back with her boyfriend and was "busy" with all that. I abandoned my sobreity. ..I guess I feel like need to be extremely cautious of who I choose to sponsor me because of my previous experience. I REALLY want this thing I am excited to work the program. I even say this in meetings and nobody approaches me. Does anybody have advice for me on how to get a GOOD sponsor??? Thanks in advance. 
----------immediate responses--------

My guy had worked the steps was paying back the money he'd stolen drinking and was willing to give me his time. He went 5x a week and had a sponsor. He had a great sense of humor and was trying hard to live by principles. He was not at all interested in being my friend or getting me to like him. Very neutral and completely honest...He was unlike me in many ways but he hadn't drank in a number of years and was enjoying sobriety. I wanted to learn how that was done from him...I didn't need a guru or a morality coach or someone to care about my feelings or anyone who would take anything from me. He wouldn't take a match for his cigarette from me out of the principle that we don't take from new people...sober members only give...Don't settle for 2nd or 8th best sponsor. Go first class..
The paradox of AA seems to be no one wants to tell people what to do yet as a new member we want to be told what to do! Consider being direct. Walk up to a woman that is more mature and seems to have solid sobriety and ask them to sponsor you. I cannot imagine they will turn you down. If she does I would bet she would walk you over to another woman that she feels can help you. ..Mature (ok older) people tend to have the relationship housing money etc. distractions resolved and can help you focus on your sobriety. 
Find a temp sponsor until you find someone you can trust. I cannot emphasize enough how important it is to find someone you can trust to sponsor you. A lot of people will say "who cares just get one". You don't want a sponsor that has an ego/crap sobriety/controlling/big mouth/gossip/etc. Find someone that has what you want and then ask them to sponsor you. In the meantime find someone you can be accountable to.
My guess is that you are approaching this like you would approach looking for a friend. Your sponsor isn't that. I recommend looking for someone with solid sobriety who can get you through the steps. It doesn't matter if you click or share things in common other than alcoholism. ..Good luck!  
Picking a sponsor......difficult I think most of us are tempted to pick someone we are not threatened by when we choose a sponsor and these fears may cause us to make poor choices when there is a "perfect" candidate right in front of us but we discount them because they speak the truth and even though we know we need help we pray that we don't need "that" kind of help and we can scrape by without it...In this way our fears keep us from recovery. So what can we do? I learned not to trust my brain so much it tells me lies and is wrong much of the time. Perhaps picking a sponsor can be a first venture into the spiritual world. A prayer/request as my sponsor taught me :  " hello higher power I need help I am becoming aware that i cannot trust my own thoughts to steer me in the right direction all the time and this scares the shit out of me if you are there I hope i can trust you and i ask you to put someone in my path to be a good sponsor and to give me the courage to ask them when I think i have found them thank you".
You don't need a sponsor to begin step work.  Believe it or not purely attending meetings is 12th step work in its simplest form.  Being available to other alcoholics is very important for all of us to remember.  You've also made it through 12 and 3.  Remembering and reaffirming them to ourselves daily is a key driving force.
I would keep going to meetings and listen to what others are sharing. many of the members with a solid foundation for recovery will stand out and it will be evident when they share. seek them out after the meeting. if all else fails you can ask someone who you think is working a good problem. good luck :) 
