-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7d5ap7/what_are_your_favorite_inspirational_oneliners/

I always hear so many awesome little one-liners and quips in meetings. I say I'm going to write them down and then forget; so thought I would ask all of you. ..For example an old lady in one of my groups always says "If you're really struggling remember: you can always go back to drinking so why not wait until tomorrow?"..Or last night I heard a funny one "Alcoholics think they are simultaneously pieces of shit and the center of the world. The result is a special kind of shit-storm" ...
----------immediate responses--------

"I came to understand that the thoughts beliefs &amp; opinions of other people were none of my business." --From a story in the back of the book
Not offically AA but my old sponsor said to me (I was having boy troubles and was worrying about the future) "If you stay sober tonight the WORST CASE SCENARIO tomorrow is you're going to wake up and be fine."
Here's several hundred to start with...http://aaslogans.com
not AA but "If you want something done ask a busy person to do it". So true. the busier I am the more I can get done. When I have nothing to do - I can't get anything done. Moral: stay busy. 
Something I heard in a meeting  if you want to hide something from an alcoholic put it in the big book. 
There is a book:  Yesterdays tomorrow: Recovery  stories for hard cases by Barry Longyear.  One of us.  Stuff he has heard in meetings.  Highly recommend.  He is AA NA OA and a few others ..or as he puts it:   ...any A that saves my A.  
Heard at an AA conference a few weeks ago in reference to being completely honest.   The only thing an alcoholic ever did in moderation was the Twelve Steps. -Scott L. from Nashville
"If you want to make the mail box on the corner your higher power and it helps you stay sober then talk to that mail box every day"  .."If I woke up today feeling like I did when I was drinking I'd call 911" .."AA is NOT hot bed of mental health"  .."Did you like everyone at the bar you drank at? No? Than why do you think you have to "like" every single person that you encounter in AA?" .."Have you ever just had 1 drink? Think about it. Has there ever been a period where you only had one drink? No? Take a seat you qualify"..- my crazy sponsor George 
"I switched my motto: instead of saying 'fuck tomorrow' that buck that bought the bottle could've struck the lotto"..\- Nas *Life's a Bitch*
