-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7e1skr/missing_meetings_and_relapsing/

Hello. Im still pretty new to AA. Luckily my city has a lot of different groups. But i suffer from depression too and i feel sometimes going to aa is just so exhausting. Once im there im so happy im there yet i feel myself struggling to get to my meetings. I got so drunk lastnight and feel so sick today. Im tired of relapsing i feel like aa is judging me everytime i relapse but i should know that im not the first person to have relapses. I feel its jusy my paranoia when i tell fellow aa members that i keep failing while everyone else seems to be saying sober. I just feel my life is so boring without alcohol. With my depression nothing is enjoyable sober. Yet i know the more sobriety i have the depression willl get better. I just need to find thay strength to be patient i  know im not gunna feel better immediately. How can i find strength to stay sober? What do you others do?.
----------immediate responses--------

Workout and find a purpose or atleast spend your free time doing something productive that you enjoy. I'm in college I had to cut back on my drinking it just makes you hungover and feel like shit for the next few days after a crazy weekend.  Oh also get this vape called a souring air it's like the size of a credit card. I use 45 mg juice in it which makes it just like hitting a cigarette without all the chemicals and shit. Anyways it doesn't make much smoke so either so you can hit this thing  all day everyday pretty much anywhere 2 hits and your buzzin your ass off hahaha. So yea I guess I've transitioned to nicotine
Do you have a sponsor? If not get one and works the 12 steps out of the big book this is life or death.
Some people in AA are judging you. They are sick people. I'd say the majority aren't. Anyone who judges you regardless of their sobriety is a fucking idiot and is in a terrible place. We are all working at staying sober one day at a time. Sometimes we forget how powerful addiction is. With that there is a solution. You don't have to keep feeling like shit. You go to meetings and feel good? Sounds like you need to grab that low hanging fruit.
Are you being appropriately and adequately treated with medication for depression? I am and it helps me stay sober. If you have not done so please see a psychiatrist for an evaluation. If you are taking medication and drinking...well that is counterproductive because antidepressants are not effective in combination with alcohol. ..Also I had a therapist went to rehab outpatient treatment and AA meetings. I got a sponsor and worked the steps. This is what I did which laid the groundwork for a lifetime of recovery...
The majority of those you see who are staying sober now failed on their first try(ies). It's common to just show up a bit and hope that will be enough to overcome our condition. Imo most of us do the minimum efforts that we estimate will work well for us. And we most often err at first. ..What you've experienced so far makes you more like those you see not less like them. I needed to ramp up my involvement to the point where it was sufficient for me (the same point as the winners in my group). Less effort and inconvenience didn't pay off for the 6 years I half-measured..
There are three components to the AA program:.- Unity: the fellowship.- Recovery: the steps.- Service: helping others..So far you have been to meetings and attended it with others you are exercising unity but it's hard to belong to a gym if you're not using the machinery. I suggest you get a sponsor someone who seems decent and has their shit together ask them to give you their number and call them daily unless they say otherwise. Ask them to explain the steps to you and walk you through them so you can start cleaning up. We promise you as you do this the intensity of your  problems will decrease and things will become hopefulm again.
For me the things that pulled me through at the start were finding a small tightly knit home group getting a sponsor and getting and honoring service commitments.  Our group met every Saturday night and we regularly went out to a coffee shop after the meeting where newcomers were welcome.  We also used to go hiking every couple of months.  For me one of the hardest aspects of my alcoholism is getting out of my own head and struggling with the urge to isolate but if I have a commitment it gives me a reason to show up and a job to do so I feel more comfortable.  Just my .02.
My drinking caused serious depression also.  After I had been sober for several months my depression cleared.  When I got active in recovery my boredom lifted.
Have you tried getting a prescription for your depression? Mental health is a HUGE factor in addiction (not everybody has mental health issues but A LOT do)...
