-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7e5apl/speaking_under_pressure/

This isnt a post about sharing your story when asked to speak this is more like speaking in turn in a meetings setting or even being interviewed in a professional setting. ..Been close to four years sober and I still struggle from putting words to thought in my mind I can articulate and make these great connections but whenever I go to speak i flat out draw a blank. ..Early on I attributed it to brain fog anxiety or lack of experience but as years pass I still for the life of me can not articulate a concept verbally or tell a story...One on one situations I do fine and listen and observe for social cues (yes i did once think i could be slightly autistic) but that's just not it...Even when i speak in turn and give my self time and speak slowly and wait for things to come to mind - it just doesn't happen and i end up sitting their awkwardly. ..It's very frustrating not being able to express myself like others can. ..Anybody have a similar experience? 
----------immediate responses--------

I've been sober 6 years and same thing for me. I don't have any advice or suggestions. Just wanted to share that I can relate. I am the best speaker around if its just me talking in my head but once I have to actually open my mouth I forget it all.
I have totally been there man! Start sharing at smaller meetings. It took me sharing a quick little "I relate to that" at smaller meetings to become more comfortable over time. I would stutter through it and my face would go beat red. Eventually I got where I could share for a little while and keep my thoughts in order. In addition to just dealing w those uncomfortable moments struggling through shares I would and still do say a quick little prayer that I can effectively convey message to even one person who needs to hear it that night. 
Dude! Me too!!! I'm so glad I'm not the only one.  Over 4 years sober here. ..I stated doing something thay took the fear away the other day and that helped a lot. Don't know if I said anything that helped but I wasn't scared and I was able to speak. ..After reading The Next Frontier--Emptional Sobriety by Bill W. (Published in the grapevine) I realized just how fear driven I still am. I started putting things into action much more consistently in my life. I started paying more attention to how I feel throughout the day. When fear driven I ether pray or inventory depending on the level. ..So before I share I just ask to be helpful. Maybe it works. I get less nervpus. Hopefukly I can carry the message to someone.
LOL!!! Been there!!!..My problem was I was trying to formula what I was going to say before I said it thinking that it would come out better... it never did :)..I started just speaking "from the heart" and now words just flow out. I sometimes look down close my eyes when I speak. I always speak about "what I have done" or "what I have gone through".
Fuck! I thought that it was just being in early sobriety that made me have this problem! That one day I could open my mouth at a meeting and doves would fly away as I conveyed true and warm wisdom melting hearts all through the room. ..  Guess I'll forever be awkward :/
Do you meditate? It sounds like you're stuck "in your head." I had this same problem sought help for it was diagnosed with ADHD and put on meds. They helped a bit but I got off them and started meditating instead. Been meditating for 3 years and the brain fog hasn't come back since about 9 months into it. It's been a godsend.
Find a small meeting and just ramble away.  Free associate talk about your cat shopping whatever.   Speak for 30 secs or 3 minutes.  Say "my name is... and I'm grateful to be a member of AA thank you that's all".  Eventually you'll build up and get over the hurdles we've all got over.  
Yes I can relate completely.  For me it was a matter of moving from my mind into my heart.  Talking about experiences and feelings I had experienced was easier  than "topics".
