-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7eo5lp/trying_to_get_with_with_the_program/

So today I had a setback (I don't like the word relapse)... I got a. DWI late June and started going to meetings in September. I am trying to go full force got a sponsor last Monday.....But today I had to get a blower on my truck and set up my first probation meeting and it made me feel like a piece of shit. So I drank and broke my 3 weeks of sobriety. My sponsor was really understanding and knows that setbacks are not uncommon but I still feel like crap. ..I know tomorrow is another day and yesterday is gone but how do I deal with my guilt today?!?
----------immediate responses--------

I drank after five years of sobriety and felt immense guilt. Be kind to yourself we have a illness . Tommorow is a new day. And pray.
You have a sponsor and told the truth.  You are well on your way.  Dealing with regret and remorse for past failings has been difficult for me throughout sobriety.  In my case it is a symptom of hubris - a lack of appropriate humility.  My perception of my relationship to the real world is still out of whack.  Life is not perfect and I do not yet have sufficient acceptance.
I am an alcoholic and i have a brain that just loves to get stuck on negative thoughts. Resentments guilt fear these all go around and around.....my committee has one job - to make me miserable enough to take a drink again and the only thing more powerful than the committee is god...So praying is a good start to turning it off or down but there are some actions you can take "getting out of yourself"  probably you have heard this a way to practice it is when you are sitting alone stewing on one of the above and it won't turn off.....go help someone help mom with the wash help wife with the kids offer to help with the dishes things you would NEVER think of doing before. ..And logic says " how is helping somebody do something i hate doing going to help me?" great question after a little while you will find that your brain has focussed on something else and your little hamster has stopped running on his squeaky wheel it works! try it. try to practice unselfishness and help someone out. Even a stranger...
Once I started really working the steps those cravings and desire to drink faded
**We will not regret the past nor wish to shut the door on it**..You drank.  In the past.  Don't regret that ... just go forward beginning with right now :)
A step up would be to commit to yourself to talk with your sponsor before you take the next drink. Suggest first looking up the definition of 'commit'...If you're going to drink when you feel bad about where your drinking behavior has taken you you'll be doing a lot of drinking. The easy path is to rationalize your relapse the more useful path is to learn what actions will help you avoid more of the same. That's learned by honest sharing in meetings and listening to the responses and going over your lingering reservations about being an alcoholic done with your sponsor. Right now there is something left for you in another drink and that fantasy needs to be resolved.
I tried not to think to hard about it at first. Morbid reflection doesn't help anyone especially yourself. You did the right thing telling your sponsor ( honesty!!) and asking for help. your making progress try to focus on that instead.
