-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7fmomd/struggled_with_drinking_too_much_these_last_few/

Just thought I'd give my advice on what to do when you're struggling with alcohol addiction...My story isn't one of your typical alcoholic in fact many people have said they don't know what I'm worrying about you hardly drink etc etc. Yet I KNEW it WAS a problem. I was losing too many weekend days from having a hang over going in to work rough at least once or twice per week. I wasn't suffering from any obvious health symptoms but eventually I KNEW I would...I was only drinking perhaps 2-3 times per week BUT I WANTED to drink WAY more than that - I had to force myself to stop everynight. I was only drinking around 25-35 units per week - small fry perhaps to some on here and many people wouldn't associate that with having a problem. But I KNEW I had one - and I was ADDICTED...So I had been thinking about having hypnosis for a while and never really plucked up the courage to go. I'm glad I did though...I went to see a local hypnotist (names/details on request). And she talked to me about my issue(s) not too probing but more of an awareness of what might be underlying any issues (stress abuse money etc etc). Then she started on the hypnotism. At first I wasn't sure if this was really working I had a slightly doubtful feeling but just let it wash over me. At the end she emailed me an MP3 of the session for me to listen to everyday for a month or so...Now before we started she asked me if I wanted to completely give up alcohol or just to reduce it. She warned me that if I chose to go 100% then I will never want to drink again. And also if I went the 'reduce' path then I could well go back to my old ways after a while. So I chose the reduce option and could always go to the 100% if I feel like I want to at a later date...Anyway this was about 5-6 weeks ago and I'm only drinking once per week now approx. 10 units per week. BIG improvement for me. So happy that I spent the  55 on the session. Very impressed with the results...Any questions please feel free to ask..
----------immediate responses--------

Let us know how you are in a year.  Best of luck.  What works for everyone is not always the same.  I just question why you would still want to drink if you identified it as a morphing and compounding problem in your life?
I think you are confused. This isn't a sub for anonymous alcoholics.  This is a sub for people who follow/are interested in the 12 steps of Alcoholics Anonymous which is a way of life and a fellowship of people.  It's not a place to advertise cures. 
&gt; ... I had to force myself to stop .....If you could actually do that then this subreddit isn't for you.  Alcoholics Anonymous and by extension this subreddit is for people who can't do what you could do.  We call people like you "normals" :)..Congratulations though on what you've accomplished!
Keep it going. A friend went that route for his drinking problem. He couldn't afford 2x a week sessions but even the once a week session cut his drinking in half for a few weeks. He's 44 years sober in AA now. Good luck.
Thank you for sharing your experience! Interesting stuff. I hope it continues to work for you!
Is there any way i can transfer this thread/topic to the r/cutdowndrinking thread?
Nice LARP unfortunately this kind of thing could be dangerous for a real alcoholic..
