-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7g0r2d/i_relapsed_and_i_hate_myself_for_it/

Title says it all. ..I've relapsed and feel shit about it. I went to one AA meeting told myself I didn't need to go again. One night on a date I had a glass of wine felt fine. Another night had 2 beers and smoked some pot fine. This Saturday planned and told friends I wasn't drinking somehow ended up at a bar... 4 beers shots I don't even know. Thankful I didn't stick around to do drugs with a friend later though I deeply wanted to and would've if my other friend didn't tell me to go home. I blacked out most of the night. ..I was so depressed the next day for doing this to myself. I'm scared to reach out to my friend again about AA because I'm worried she'll be disappointed in me or not want to support me anymore... though I know she'd never feel that way. She told me even if I drink again she'll still support me. But I don't want to admit it. I don't want her to think I'm using her. I don't want to trigger her though she's a mentor for people. ..I still find myself thinking  I'm not as bad as them so I don't need AA I just need more willpower . I am so hung up on perfectionism and wanting to do everything myself and not admitting I need help. And I'm afraid of this pattern. No I don't drink every day. I was able to go a couple weeks without drinking. I don't even feel the urge to drink really like an aversion is there. But man as soon as I have one it's done. And I clearly felt an urge on Saturday night. ..I'm so pissed off at myself. The problem is I still don't see myself as a person with a problem because I don't drink every day and I don't have terrible withdrawals but here I am. 
----------immediate responses--------

No need to hate yourself for doing what alcoholics like me do best (drink)!  The thing is most of us didn't think we were like "them" and it is really easy to find reasons why we're not.  For me turns out not only was I just like "them" I eventually became them - going to meetings despite it being years since my last drink and happily sharing what my version of fucked up life was like and how I got beyond it...&gt; But man as soon as I have one it's done...BOOM!  That's the thing we all have in common: powerless beyond the first drink.  My solution was inside AA though there are certainly other methods out there.  The trick is to find the one that works for you the way AA worked for me :)
Just keep coming back... Always. One day you will pick up your final white chip cause you will have had enough. Until that day Just keep coming back. I just pray that your "enough" will be an emotional or spiritual bottom and not jail or worst.
Reading your post shows clearly how the disease is distorting your thinking and keeping you away from recovery (AA).  For example depression fear remorse pride self reliance anger are all symptoms of the disease that keep us from embracing recovery.  Great example for me.  Thank you!
It's what you can expect until you engage with a sufficient solution because our condition will overcome your ironclad and irrevocable decisions to stay stopped every time even though you very much would like that to be otherwise.
We are human we slip we have a drink all that matters in AA is coming back. I have been off and on for a little over a month now I had two meetings where I did say I needed a startover token and that was a lot to handle. " She told me even if I drink again she'll still support me." Rigorous honesty my friend. You have nothing to fear this person has told you that they wont think of you any differently since you had a slip. Be honest with this person who cares for you but most importantly be honest for YOU. Why carry around another layer of guilt or shame from being dishonest. Hopping back on the wagon isn't simply not drinking its a whole process that can make you a better person if you allow it to.  
