-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7g5ew1/some_resentments_against_the_stepsneed_help/

I've gone through the steps once in my first 90 days. I prayed the prayers was open honest and willing. Worked incredibly hard. Made amends to family and stuff like that. I still have no connection to a higher power. I have a major resentment against God. As an adult I found my way into an extremely conservative born-again church. By choice I underwent conversion therapy and attended sex addiction support groups due to my attraction to the same sex which I had never really acted on but believed was a deadly problem. I am angry at God about that. I am very angry at God for making me bisexual and for making me an alcoholic and also for giving me a mother who never loved me. I do believe in God but not that he has any interest in helping me or could run my life any better than I am or that he would like be "nice" to me in any way.  ..In addition to that I am having trouble with step 4. Like I said I already did it once. And I was extremely desperate. I have a year and 10 months at this point. But at the beginning I did whatever I was told without question. So I did a thorough step 4. The thing is as the scapegoat child of a narcissistic alcoholic I took the blame for literally everything. For the mood of every member of the household. I took the blame for every bad day had by anyone. I took the blame for bad weather and bad food and unpaid bills. I was the whipping-girl. And I continue to blame myself for just about everything under the sun. I just see myself as an inferior person at life. I am inadequate in every way possible. And it seems that Step 4 just reinforces this. As far as me determining my role in things. I have blamed myself for everything that has ever happened to me. So....I am not really sure I see the benefit in that. ..My main struggle is dissatisfaction with my life. General discontentment. I go to meetings read the BB have a sponsor but we aren't very close. I've been sober nearly two years. I do not have the desire to drink. But I hate my life and myself. I am also in therapy and I also take anti-depressants. I am sort of at the point where I think I am pretty much stuck where I am and there is no help. ..Any advice is appreciated. ..
----------immediate responses--------

have you put yourself on your amends list? Someone had to remind me to do it. you might want to do a 4th on your resentments toward yourself I found that helpful and eventually led the path to an innate sense of self worth in me that is growing...There are different styles to sponsorship- ultimately someone you feel like you can talk to is important and if you have spent your active life just doing what others said- the do as you are told approach might not be sufficient. My initial sponsor was like that "take the cotton out of your ears and put it in your mouth etc etc" but hearing others was never my problem. I wasn't able to grow until I found someone with a gentler approach. A lot of what you said I can relate to and a lot of women in the program who drank in service of others- so it's just a little different than the by the book approach which can assume that you have never thought of anyone but yourself.
I know what I would do if a sponsee came to me with this so I can share that: first I'd never have gone past step 5 until the God stuff was handled. I'd hammer step 3 have him put God right on his resentment list in column 1 and work it through that step. Out the other side of that process if you've done it correctly it's in its right place. Either you find your part or go to the top of page 67 and run it through that. Either way this self pity and there sounds like a lot of it here would be looked at and hopefully dealt with. .   This all sounds to me like incomplete step work. Or done to fast or something... everything you've said sounds tailor fit to the steps. They are literally designed to handle this exact thing. I'd get a new sponsor of you need to or start over from the beginning and do it again. 
I can relate. I was brutally raped in 2014 and I didn't even put those men on my list the first time around. I couldn't let myself be angry at them. It was obviously my fault for being drunk alone at a club. ..My sponsor didn't quite understand because she was an angry person at the world and others. She didn't understand all my resents were towards myself. ..The Big Book has a section for us. We're the depressive alcoholic. The self pity alcoholic. I had to come to a hard truth that it was self pity. Deep down you know you have been wronged but are still afraid of the consequences. Be brave. It's okay to be angry. It's okay to be sad. Let yourself feel those emotions and express them in writing a 4th step. ..After I did my steps I felt soooo bad. Like how you said it wasn't productive. But I just kept going and did a super thorough step 6 and 7. Your (and mine) short comings might be:..1. Disbelief in God - this is not new to God. Plenty of people in the Bible had to pray that they would believe more. You can do that too. He gets it. ..2. 
A version of the steps without the god-stuff. ..Step 1: I'm in a mess and over my head...Step 2: Maybe I don't have all the answers so I'll ask for help...Step 3: Decide to pay attention to advice given...Step 4: Take an honest look at how I've been living my life...Step 5: Tell someone else about my unhealthy lifestyle and harm to others...Step 6: Decide to live a healthier kinder life...Step 7: Make specific changes toward that goal...Step 8: List everyone I have hurt...Step 9: Have the courage to tell them I'm sorry &amp; make amends except if doing so would cause harm...Step 10: Keep an eye on myself alert to old thinking and behaviors...Step 11: Be aware of the beauty in the world and people...Step 12: Pass on to others the kindness 
Getting stuck on a step and feeling horrible is familiar. Imo the rotten feelings are produced by our resistance to moving forward with whichever step we're on. It's not a requirement for you to grasp in advance the benefits you'll realize by completing step 4 or any of the others ahead of you if you continue making progress instead of drinking again...On the good side no one can make you do the steps and there's only one person who can get in your way and derail your progress made to this point. Don't allow her to do that.
You are in a rut I am in a rut All will be well and everyones favorite saying:this too shall pass. Have you thought about reading with another sponsor? A good buddy of mine in the program just changed sponsors and is starting fresh regarding the steps. Also remember your higher power "God" as AA says way too often does not have to have an affiliation with any religion or be related to any of it! In the big book Bill states  "If you are convinced you are now at step three which is that you make a decision to turn your will and your life over to God as you understand Him. Just what do we mean by that and just what do we do?."The first requirement is that you see that any life run on self-will can hardly be a success. . . .".AS YOU UNDERSTAND HIM: I have an issue with religion due to some other personal issues and right now my higher power is mother nature. The importance is accepting that there is something greater than you that is running the show you no longer are playing the director. You are the actor in this game and there are many things you have ZERO control over. I have heard of athiests groups my sponsor does not fully believe in a christan based God or God in general but he recognizes there is something greater than him that runs the show. Remember the Serenity Prayer: .Grant me the serenity.to accept the things I cannot change;.courage to change the things I can;.and wisdom to know the difference.'..
Plenty good stuff already written...Personally I had to 'fire' God before I could make progress on the steps.  While I'm pretty sure these days that I could have eventually reconciled my belief system without drastic measures making a clean break was helpful at the time...My conception of a higher power wasn't working.  If someone either can't or won't work they get fired.  So I 'fired' God and put the position open and eventually a new 'conception' that worked much better came along...I've actually done this several times...I reserve the right to change my conception of a higher power as I see fit based on my perceived needs and my current ability to comprehend the infinite.  What changes over time is not God but my perception and comprehension.
I just deleted a barely coherent 9 paragraph long response. I decided that I could do better by being more to the point. Here are two things to keep in mind:..1) Please keep coming back. Don't let any expectations of what you think the steps should do for you deter you from experiencing being right where you are...2) You don't have to believe the steps to get results from working then. Nor do you need to have it figured out before working then. Just do it. Listen to your sponsor. Go by the book. The steps are designed to free you from resentment. The magic of freedom comes from letting go. ..3) Ok I lied I said two things. But one more: keep coming back.
They have atheist AA where the group as a whole is the higher power.  It generally in more liberal progressive areas.  There is also Life Ring and SMART program you could try as well but AA is good because it's full of people trying to get and stay sober.
