-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7gfplh/help_my_dad_is_an_alcoholic_and_currently_having/

Hello all..I am currently with my dad right now who is having a relapse. He is not in at in an unconcious state yet but I am scared he is not going to stop. I am trying my best to be loving and supporting but I do not want to be an enabler. I dont know how to proceed and I am scared. Any advice on my what next move should be would be greatly appreciated!! Thank you all. I love him so much and don't want him to hurt himself
----------immediate responses--------

Do you know his Sponsor? If so call him. Maybe ask him to go to a meeting and take him. Bless you for your concern and remember none of this is your fault. 
go to alanon..
If he tries to hurt you or threatens suicide you can call the police or drives drunk of course I'm sure you don't want to be the one to do that but alcoholics push people to their limits and then act surprised when people push back we are selfish and unthinking and sometimes people have to protect us from ourselves but unfortunately they will do it thanklessly...You cannot do much to help it is good you don't want to enable that is excellent if you understand the concept if you do and you practice it you will be helping right there...You can try and approach him when he is hungover and remorseful and be honest about how worried you are and anything you have seen him do that he probably does not remember. When family members did this to me i did not like it I knew from their tone that they were being honest and that i did the things they said and i felt like crap about it but did not want to give up the only thing that made me feel ok at that point...Oh and if you do those things expect resistance perhaps even standing out of swinging distance...Other than that what you can do is to go to an alanon meeting and ask the people there for help. You need to help yourself because living with an alcoholic brings fear breeds selfishness hurt resentment poor life skills unconsciously picked up etc and you may not know it but you need help just like he does. ..Nobody can hang around that and not be affected and when you are young you are more affected but might not know it because you have grown up with it. If healthy sane people accidentally hook up with an alcoholic after they discover it they reluctantly leave after trying to help and failing. If you stick around and try to fix that is a problem itself called co-depandancy.
