-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7gni8t/seeking_some_advice_on_my_sober_living_house/

I'm at a strange mental place with my living situation. Less than two months into sobriety I feel like some of the safety barriers I've set up are gratuitous...The house I selected when getting out of rehab has A LOT of rules. 10 pm curfew limited movement in terms of places I'm allowed to go.. I can't take a job that doesn't allow me to go to the daily hour long meeting or that keeps me out past 10...I feel like I absolutely needed it straight out of rehab but a month in I already feel like it's holding me back. I was making so much spiritual and mental progress that has now essentially stopped. Part of it is simply feeling like I don't need to be here...Another issue are the attitudes of the men I'm now constantly surrounded by. Older men generally who are extremely bitter and lack the ability to trust anyone. I'm working hard at recovery and at work yet I'm singled out to be grilled constantly accused of lying and peppered with questions about where I'm going and what I'm doing. I should never have brought women over as that created an additional level of jealousy. This has had an extremely negative affect on my general attitude and willingness to engage with any of them...I know that this place may be the only reason I've yet to relapse. But I also know that I don't HAVE to be there. I'm in no way obligated by courts or anything else to remain. And I feel like it may be inhibiting my progress...Maybe this whole thing is simply the required red tape that I need to cut in order to remain sober and free of drugs. The proverbial spiritual test...Any advice would be lovely I appreciate it.
----------immediate responses--------

I hear you man I'm also in a sober house and don't really like it. So how can our perspective shape our outlook? My opinion is that while it can be uncomfortable there is room for growth. I can learn from my house mates by what they are doing wrong or by reaching out and being kind to them. I want to move out as soon as I can scrape together a deposit but this seems impulsive as I wouldn't be able to furnish my new spot and that's a chance to practice patience. Following rules that I think are arbitrary and asinine is a chance to practice humility and giving up control. ..The whole women thing is tricky enough without living in a sober house. I won't date until I achieve a few personal goals and gain more self sufficiency...Granted there are bad sober houses but if there's a level of accountability and people are held responsible for their actions it may be good to stay there for a few months to a year. Like you said it may be the only reason you haven't drank. There are many men I've spoken to that say the time they spent in sober living gave them a foundation for continuing recovery and was some of the best times in their lives...Or you could just be like me and want to murder your roommate who farts and burps every 6 minutes like clockwork and feel sorry for yourself most of the time because people drink my milk.
Here's a different perspective...The problems you face in the sober house are opportunities to learn sober living skills. Coping with the difficulties you are facing will prepare you for similar problems when you are in the "real world". ..&gt; I know that this place may be the only reason I've yet to relapse...This alone is reason to stay where you are!
I used to work in a house with almost identical rules and issues. ..My advice is to make the best of it. I thoroughly believe that those who did well in that environment had a better chance of sobriety long after 'graduating' the house. It can be unbearable to deal with people who don't want to be there or are stagnant in their recovery. Please reach out to the staff that are employed there as they can give you a different perspective entirely. They have likely seen it all and have some solid advice to offer. ..You may feel as though every situation and issue in the house is a huge deal but upon leaving the house you realize all those issues were trivial and unimportant in the grand scheme. Just do the best you can and try to remember that you can't control the world around you.
Also.  Talk to your sponsor.   Talking out my problems is HUGELY beneficial.  I get so much practical advice about living life on life's terms.  
You already have some good advice here from others.  I just want to point out a flaw in your thinking.  You seem to be stuck in a false dichotomy between this house and living on your own.  There are other options:  another house or make your own house with another sober alcoholic or two.
Thanks for sharing. It sounds to me like you are restless irritable and discontent..I'm a lurker on this subreddit and reddit in general but I finally feel like I might be able to offer some perspective. 9 months ago I was in the same place..I'm currently a resident and manager of a recovery house where I have lived now for almost ten months. One of the troubles I had in early sobriety was that I had a very limited perspective on my own thoughts and actions. Most of my thoughts and actions were selfish and I was mostly incapable of realizing how self deluded I was without the help of my sponsor and the men around me. When I was called out and held accountable for my actions it sucked. I hated it. I often blamed other people and outside circumstances..Your post here really doesn't talk much about the part you play in any of this dissatisfying living arrangement. I see you blame your limited curfew and your limited schedule for jobs and limited places you can go as somehow limiting your spiritual and mental growth. But what steps are you taking to make spiritual progress? Do you have a sponsor? Are you taking daily inventory? Are you making amends?.I see you blame the bitterness suspicion and jealousy of the men you live with for the poor relationships in the house. But what actions are you taking to help these men? Check out the resentment prayer on page 67 of the Big Book..When it comes to yourself all you say is that you are "working hard at recovery and work." Perhaps you should take a look at what you can do to continue your spiritual growth and improve your relationships in the house?.I do see a big red flag in this post. You say you have been at this house for 4 weeks and that you have brought **women** over as in more than one. My house doesn't allow women and for good reason. If you're chasing tail from multiple women in early recovery there's a good chance that you are substituting the endorphins released from using alcohol or drugs with the endorphins released from the thrill of romantic and sexual conquest..If like me you are a true alcoholic/addict it's important to realize the right house or the right housemates or the right job or the right woman will never provide you with the feeling you are searching for. Dr. Silkworth lays it out in the Doctors Opinion when he talks about the alcoholic:."They are restless irritable and discontented unless they can again experience the sense of ease and comfort which comes at once by taking a few drinks... After they have succumbed to the desire again as so many people do and the phenomenon of craving develops they pass through the well-known stages of a spree emerging remorseful with a firm resolution not to drink again. This is repeated over and over and unless this person can experience an entire psychic change there is very little hope of his recovery.".What Dr. Silkworth doesn't say here is that before the alcoholic drinks he often tries to find this ease and comfort in other ways - by finding a better job or a hotter woman or surrounding himself with better people or dressing himself in nicer clothes or leasing a faster car - whatever releases endorphins into his brain..But if you like me are a true alcoholic none of these things will ever be enough. And eventually I will drink or use. I need a complete psychic change and I find that change occurs daily through the spiritual work I do to maintain my recovery - work that was suggested to me by my sponsor and the 12 steps of Alcoholics Anonymous..In rehab they told me that I needed to stay away from people places and things. But at the end of the day my people places and things are Me Me and Me. No matter who I'm with where I go or what I do I am always there. I was the problem alcohol was my solution. I had other solutions too but alcohol was my love and it brought me to me knees over and over..I have a new solution now and I found by getting uncomfortable and working a spiritual program...TL;DR - If you're a true alcoholic changing your living situation won't help your sobriety in the long term. But if you find a sponsor work the steps and have a spiritual experience then it won't matter where you live or who you live with.
It's not supposed to be comfortable. I think the idea is your way didn't work so well so you're going to surrender to something else.  Willing to go to any lengths  to stay sober. Sober living for a while is one of those lengths. 
Homeboy sounds like you need to make a lateral move. I will bet that there is another sober house near you especially if you live in a metro area. time to start looking. if what you say is true then others will know the reputation of the sober house you currently live in and will help you find a new place. Best of luck don't you dare use this as an excuse to go and do what you want to do. ..PS I'll clarify that last sentence. This should not be a time for you to start looking for your own apartment/house or move back to where you were before. This should be a time for you to look for another sober living environment with strong accountability just not the kind they have in your current living situation.
Easier said than done I hate hearing it but Make the uncomfortable comfortable. The biggest thing you can do is NOT drink that's progress my friend. Sure it might not be perfection but this might be teaching you how to deal with sitatuions where you have little control. All you can do is watch how you react and learn from any mistakes inventory yourself! I sometimes go to meetings where I cannot stand the others in the room. At the end of the day though I didn't drink and I might have learned something from one of these miserable pricks. Try to make the best of the situation if you need anything feel free to PM me Good luck you got this!
I can only speak from personal experience but I moved into a halfway house after I completed 90 days of rehab and was absolutely fucking miserable. Not just uncomfortable and awkward and feeling out of place and restricted but crying all the time straight up suicidal misery. It was the longest two weeks of my life and I leapt at the chance to leave. ..That said I had three months under my belt by the time I got there and had a bit more coping skills and resources available than I did at a month or even two months sober. I found a different sober house to live in that was less restrictive and moved in two days after I found it. ..If you're not in the outright misery stage I would say try to tough it out. See what happens a few weeks from now. More than likely you will find some things you like. Talk to your sponsor talk to people in the program talk to the other people in the house to see what they experienced. You'll be okay. But you have to give it a chance. 
For what it's worth I've found the SLEs I've lived in which had the most rules tended to have the least sobriety. The SLE I live in now has the fewest rules by far of any I've lived in...Namely..1. Do not drink/use..2. No women in bedrooms..That's really it. All the men here take their sobriety seriously and as such don't require being told how to run their program. That being said structure can be incredibly helpful(especially in early sobriety)...My advise would be to stick out where you're at while looking for a new SLE that might be a better fit. Just remember what you need to put first. Best of luck. 
I appreciate all of the advice. I read everything while contemplating.. Although I did end up moving out last night. ..I probably wasn't thorough enough while describing the situation. There certainly was some self will involved but the situation was inherently negative. I probably made a terrible decision in selecting the house known for being the toughest for staying at..The majority of them have been locked up for long periods of time and are court ordered to live there. I honestly thought I'd be treated the same as everyone else there but I turned into a convenient punching bag...Another thing.. it's a self sufficient house. There is no staff. There's a board of directors but the only power they have is to UA and breathalyze. All of the other rules and accountability are handled by residents. As much as I'd like to think.. and wish and hope that everyone is the same I was perceived as different. And as such I was treated differently...Here's the plan. I'm at a friend's for now but in the next week I'm moving into a co op. It doesn't have any rules besides general house maintenance. I'm kind of worried about the lack of accountability but I've already made everyone there aware of my situation. I'm relatively confident but I'm also aware of the diligent work it's going to take. ..Sorry for asking for advice then largely disregarding the responses.. unfortunately I think my mind was already made up. But in a similar vein I'm extremely driven to remain sober. I'm aware of the fact that self will can get you drunk.. but I also feel like it can keep me sober...Thanks for taking the time to respond I really do appreciate it. Wish me luck.
You go to the person(s) running the SLR?  You don't have to put up with their bullshit esp since this is your home too.
Change is not easy as you are experiencing right now but once you allow yourself to mold into your new lifestyle and having new healthy rules in your life you will reap the benefits. How you are feeling is normal and you should be uncomfortable that means you are allowing yourself to change! Its like anything you have to give it time and force yourself to do it over and over again while your brain rewires itself. Once your brain rewires itself you will look back and go OH Yea!  Keep it up!
