-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7gzsvh/being_13th_stepped/

Hey everybody.  I'm an alcoholic and addict who finally took the plunge after a decade of craziness and finally decided I had to do something about it.  I reached out to an old female friend (I'm male) who I knew had gotten sober right after we went to college together and has gotten very much into the AA/recovery community.  I wanted her to help me dispel some of the common complaints I had heard about AA (lots of God stuff cultish atmosphere) that I had always used as an excuse to avoid going and she helped me get past that.  I finally attended my first meeting yesterday on my first day of sobriety.  I was so nervous but I made myself do it and as soon as it started I realized I had nothing to fear.  Afterwards I felt great!  A sense of community and support I have never felt...I was too nervous to share myself and was definitely showing my nervousness in other ways as well (hand wringing and restless legs partially due to some minor withdrawal).  I can only imagine I looked pretty miserable.  I had been told by my friend in recovery to "make some friends!" but I was too nervous to approach anyone...Just after the meeting ended the girl who had been sitting next to me turned to me and asked if it was my first time and offered her phone number and that she would help me stay accountable.  I was thrilled!  People really are as nice and welcoming in AA as I had been told!  We had a brief chat about where we were both from and then parted ways with her telling me she would see me next week.  I left the meeting with confidence for the first time in ten years that I could stay sober and get my life to a place where I was happy.  I texted the girl afterward to thank her for reaching out to me and she replied she was happy to help and was glad we had sat next to each other and that this was the first time she had offered this kind of support to someone.  Sounded innocent enough to me...I then texted my grizzled veteran 10 year sober friend about how great the meeting was and how a nice girl had even given me her number.  She immediately told me this was a red flag and to look up step 13 which I had never heard of before.  As soon as I read the description on-line my heart sank.  Was what I had seen as a nice human gesture of support between two people going through similar struggles really something else?  She assured me that any girl offering her number to a newcomer of the opposite gender  was probably in an even worse state than I am and that I need to avoid this like the plague.  I was in danger of being taken advantage of (not something I had ever even considered before in my life as a guy)...I'm honestly feeling a bit heartbroken that something like this might be the case.  All of that spiritual levity I was feeling yesterday is gone.  I guess my question is if anyone else has had an experience like this either negative or positive getting support from someone of the opposite gender during early recovery?  From what I'm reading online in other places I should take her concerns seriously but I don't want to turn away someone's support if it really was meant genuinely...Sorry for the mini essay.  Reddit is my online home for many things and have learned a lot about other topics here so figured I'd pose this question to you all and see what people think.  Thanks for reading.
----------immediate responses--------

Hmm I don't think she's necessarily trying to jump your bones.  Some people are better at being friends with the opposite gender for some people it complicates things.  The point of guys sticking with guys and girls sticking with girls in AA is to remove that extra layer of complication so we can all do what we came here to do.  So with this girl just keep it cool and if she crosses any lines tell her you're uncomfortable and use your other resources  (AA friends you're likely to make if you keep going to meetings).  Just be vigilant and nice.  That's my advice.  .I'm a girl and I think some guys have tried to 13th step me but I've just never let it go there.  Our mission is to stay sober! 
She could have been 12th stepping you reaching out to another person who needs help. I give my number out and work with both men and women and manage to keep my dick in my pants...Wait and see.. 
13th stepping happens and it does cause problems. I have personally witnessed a "casanova" become involved with several women over the years and some of them refuse to come back to a meeting because Casanova might be there. I am fairly certain several have relapsed.  ..Especially in the early stages of recovery we can be a little lost vulnerable and needy. Having shed our old ways we often have trouble adapting and it can be easy to latch on to the support of fellow members.  ..It's when that reach crosses the gender barrier that the complications start.  ..Stopping drinking is the easy part getting sober takes work. We need to identify our weaknesses our fears and our defects in order to work on them. This means taking a step back reducing the complications in our lives and trying to gain some perspective. It's difficult to do that while trying to balance the emotional turmoil of establishing a relationship.  ..And we are all far from perfect. One of the distasteful things about alcoholics is a tendency to gossip. This can provide a distraction from our true purpose. And jealousy can be a factor as well if there is a fellow that's sweet on this young lady and she's looking in your direction instead there could be complications.  ..These are all good reasons why we don't treat the rooms of AA as a dating pool.  ..Now having said that I believe your Sponsor was cautioning you against becoming vulnerable distracting yourself from the work and impeding the progress of your recovery. There is nothing wrong with establishing platonic friendships among both genders but boundaries need to be established and respected.  ..You didn't mention how much sober time she has. If she is also in her early stages then it would be wisest not to invest too much in this area. You both have better ways to spend your energy.  ..I have been sober for about 4.5 years and have met hundreds maybe thousands of alcoholics. In all that time I have seen one --- exactly ONE --- relationship work out. All the rest have failed with varying degrees of carnage.  ..Stick to recovery. Treat AA like a work environment. It's not a playground.
It is nice when people reach out to newcomers. I try to do that and unselfishly. .Not everyone is out to get you so to speak. You have to have faith in people. 
Imo you'll be ok even if many people you meet in AA are friendly and welcoming to you. 
Be nice to her when you see her at meetings and don't mention it to her. If she brings it up tell her your appreciate her company but you're working on building BOUNDARIES...We work with same gender partners to keep from being distracted. As you start to get sober you will begin to actually experience feelings and emotions that are normally supressed by alcohol. It can be easy to develop feelings you don't need to or want to and some of that could be damaging to your early step work...Also don't worry about it. I'm sure she meant no harm and "13 Step" isn't part of the program it's kind of a levity way of talking about picking up newcomers. We circle the wagons around newcomers so that can't go on. 
I'm a guy who finds it easier to talk to women generally. But after I heard about 13th stepping I generally don't exchange contact info with girls. I know I'm being overly sensitive but I strive to not cause anyone discomfort. ..You're probably just having someone help themselves by helping you.
