-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7h8lg1/where_to_draw_the_line/

I struggled with my sobriety here recently do to my panic disorder. Well I also have been having extreme symptoms of what maybe alcohol withdrawal. I cannot tell if it's just my mood swings and panic disorder or the withdrawal. I was hoping to quit on my own but once I hit 12-24 hour mark I tremble like I've been outside in the freezing cold. I also get irritable and my heart feels like it's coming out of my chest. What also makes me think I'm in withdrawal is because my panic medicine stopped working in my manic episodes. Also as soon as I get one beer in me it all stops? I'm 24 and completely lost on this. I did a stint in rehab back in August and didn't have withdrawal then. It was mostly for my mental health and suicidal tendencies. Any guidance is needed. I've went to my mom and she is consumed in her own life and my father tells me to just pray and go to AA. I feel like I'm hanging on by a thread and no one understands....
----------immediate responses--------

It sounds like withdrawals. If I were you I would go talk to your doctor. Alcohol withdrawals can be lethal. 
Like /u/cawcaww already said: get to a doctor because yeah it sounds like withdrawals and yeah it sucks ass and yeah it actually can be deadly. Not often but often enough to be totally not cool ya know?..They can give you anti-anxiety meds to get your heart rate and blood pressure back to a "normal human" neighborhood ... then you get to AA and be all like "check it out I'm not shaking like a leaf today" which is what I did.  I bragged about NOT shaking and sweating :)
Withdrawal. Alcohol causes panic attacks. See a doctor and be honest about your drinking and all medication you take. Praying doesn't treat alcohol detox. See your physician.
Thanks you guys. I've had panic attacks before but I used alcohol to treat them and turns out it makes them worse. To the point where I can't sleep or even take a sip of water. I'm seeing my doctor tomorrow if I can make it. 
are you drinking caffeine at all ?
