-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7hlzeh/relapsed_and_too_guilty_admit_it_to_anyone/

Hi everyone long-time lurker/ first time poster here. I made an account just to get this out to confide in people who understand..I'd been sober (this time) for ten months. The day after I hit ten months I bought a drink and from there the floodgates opened. AA saved my life but after a while the guilt consumed everything. Even working the steps I felt I wasn't "good enough" that I didn't deserve these people so willing to be there for me. I can't seem to move away from my alcoholic past i feel like I don't deserve to live a happy sober life due to all the pain I've caused to others. I now have 7 trashbags full of alcohol hidden in my basement since I relapsed last week. Every time I toss a bottle and the pile adds up I watch it grow and I can see the repercussions coming from a mile away. I'm too ashamed to admit my relapse to anyone and start over and I'm too ashamed to continue this life of secrecy and guilt. I feel as if I'm stuck like this is just the life I was made living for...TLDR; how did you surpass the guilt when admitting to a relapse and starting over yet again?
----------immediate responses--------

People never tire hearing what happens when others drink again.  You'll be more popular than pay day!  You'll get all the attention mega fellowship and congratulations all round.  It was only ten months not ten years.  Alcohol is messing with you.  Get to a meeting. 
Not a single person in the rooms is better than you. I don't care if they have 30 years or 3 days. Pick yourself back up. It only gets worse. Hell you can show up to a meeting even if you are actively drinking (not actually drink at the meeting obviously). Go to a meeting and ask someone to help you pour out your booze. I bet if you reached out people would be willing to help get you there one day at a time.
Was at a meeting last night where a popular new member admitted to drinking after 3 months. The love and encouragement the group gave her for being strong and coming back really was amazing. The fellowship is a big part of why I go and working the steps and having a great sponsor really gives me the tools to stay sober. AA has made the world of difference as far as living a sober life. 
There is someone in the rooms with ten months sober who needs to hear your experience in order to avoid repeating it themselves.  Forget about the shame and go find that person who needs your help.
Get a sponsor work the steps. It works it really does.  Leave the past in the past for today. As you work the steps you will be able to deal with the past in a productive way. 
Get to a meeting. Your life is worth it. Jail and death is all your addiction has to offer. 
First thing you aren't a shitty or bad person. You have to understand the nature of this dis-ease we are all dealing with here. We are all trying to deal with pain heart ache trauma and sorrow that has accumulated over many years of living on this planet. We are trying to heal have some grace for your self right now. Healing is painful and takes time...You aren't a shitty person you like all the rest of us floating on this blue marble in space are just a being trying to cope with being. ..Now how to deal with relapse first you need to get a sponsor. Like some of the people here are telling you to. A good one will be able to walk you through why you got to this point. I would suggest reworking the steps and doubling down on steps 4 and 5. ..Last thing is.....You probably don't feel this way but take my word for it right now you are worth a good life. You are worth all the joy and peace this life has to offer us. It doesn't matter what is in your past or what you have done. There are people that will love you in spite of your past. I love you already and we are just strangers on the Internet. ..Give your self some grace and I'm proud of you for being you. You are worth it
I had 4 years and relapsed. I felt not worth it but people helped me and I went back to aa and admitted it trust me you're worth it. Be honest and share at a meeting about your relapse.
It took me 8 months of lousy drinking and further trouble just to show back up in AA tell on myself and start putting days together again. I would have been better off to have done that immediately after getting drunk again but I thought I could handle things.
What else do you have to do besides start over? Are you planning on drinking yourself to death because you acted like an alcoholic? AA is not running a contest; you haven't forfeited any imaginary status.
When a man in my 11th step meeting shared about his recent relapse after some serious time (10+ yrs maybe?) and seeing the out pouring of love he received from everyone did it for me. I was absolutely terrified and ashamed and felt guilty AF but the next meeting I introduced myself as a newcomer. It helps that a fellow member new about about my status and she encouraged me to do the right thing..Anyways... It was so hard. And then it wasn't. So much better than carrying that with me.
Did you work all the way thru the steps during those 10 months of sobriety? Because there's your solution.
