-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7hsw6l/i_relapsed_after_2_weeks_without_drinking_and_hit/

I have been trying to stop drinking for a while now. But can't seem to ever make it I've gone to meetings and tried to work the steps by myself only to go back to drinking. I havnt had to courage to try and get a sponser. I work at a restaurant where we are allowed to drink and everyone takes shots of Jameson before during and after work. I fell in the trap and went on a 2 day bender only to remember I was doing coke with my boss and coworkers. I quit that job today. I did some terrible things and said some horrible things to my wife. And I can't forgive myself it's tearing me apart. I have a family history of alcoholism and I know I'm not gonna live much longer if I stay down this path. I'm going to fly to Colorado on Thursday to meet with my cousin who has been sober for 13 years thanks to AA. So hopefully she can help. Any advice on how to forgive myself or what I need to do would be greatly appreciated. Thanks for reading 
----------immediate responses--------

Well I don't think that work environment you described would have worked for me at all so getting out of that situation might definitely help. But besides that I found that getting a sponsor was the biggest and best thing I could have done. I was lucky that I found a really great one that I connected with but I would imagine having a temp one until one can see if they really connect or until one finds a great match might be beneficial. I didn't have the knowledge and experience when I started out and I definitely needed some guidance. 
&gt;I havnt had to courage to try and get a sponser.   ..Do not need courage. Just pick someone over a year that seems to have some of what you want from your life. Just do it. You can be filled with fear and do it.   .  .You are not making it because you are not doing it.   ..As long as you keep on trying there is hope.
Definitely I'm pretty excited about not being there anymore. It was a very hard atmosphere to work in knowing I'm dealing with alcoholism. Every relapse I've had has begun at that place. I'm gonna start meetings again and just man up and get a sponser. I know I can do this but I'm just feeling so down. I'm gonna lose my family if I mess up again. She's really supportive but I know there is only so much she can take. I've put her through a lot 
I'm at 75 days and I'm living with my drinking buddies from the past 5 years. I don't talk to them anymore I listen to them party all night and one was very deeply involved in my rock bottom. I'm going to a meeting every single day more than one on the weekend and I strap on my headphones and turn up the music to tune out the party. It's hard to be in a situation like the ones we were in but you were smarter than me and got the hell out of it. Good job and I hope that this is the one that sticks. You want to change and you're taking the actions to do so. That's not worth nothing and I hope your wife will recognize that. 
The minimum is to call and speak to a member before you drink if you don't want to drink. There's much more in addition to that but it's where this begins. 
Not many people get and stay sober long term on the first go for many we need a series of rock bottoms. You can do it! It will get better 
Denver has some really strong solution based groups. Let me know if you need some suggestions! 
Great idea thank you  
