-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7huzur/went_to_my_first_meeting_tonight/

I have been struggling with alcohol for years now. I always thought of going to AA as giving in and admitting I had a problem which I clearly do. I also associated AA with church. Religion was something I was forced into as a kid and grew to despise. My relationship with the church is in a bad place and I would never associate anything good coming from it. It wasn't until I started reading here that I understood AA isn't all about Jesus...I took probably the biggest step I've taken in my life thus far and went to an AA meeting at a local church tonight. From the minute I parked everyone was super welcoming. The people outside smoking pointed me to the meeting and from there a kind old woman put me next to her and got me set up with a book. The meeting started and they asked if any newcomers would like to introduce themselves. I raised my hand and announced my name and I honestly jumped when then entire room greeted me. Tonight they were finishing the 12 step book and we took turns reading I even read a paragraph. After everyone took turns leading their own personal insight into the reading which happened to be about moving forward with what they have learned and spreading their knowledge to newcomers. I found everything that was said to be extremely insightful into my own problem...After the meeting almost everyone came over to introduce themselves three ladies even gave me their numbers to call/text for any reason. There was only one woman around my age and we spent some time talking after the meeting. She gave me a list of local meetings and pointed out her favorites as well as women only meetings in the area...I left feeling good about myself it was nice to be surrounded by people who weren't judging me or asking any questions they just wanted to help. Next week they will be starting the steps over and I'm hoping to be able to join them from the beginning. Tomorrow I'm going to a young adult AA meeting in my area and I'm hoping to find more people to connect with there.
----------immediate responses--------

Good job !!
This is great!!! Take all the suggestions you receive. Call call call those women!!! And go to as many meetings as you can!! There is a way to not feel the way you felt walking into that first meeting ever again!!
Hiya congrats. Those first meetings are always so scary when I was in the parking lot but as you just experienced as soon as I got inside the fear went away...It wasn't until a little bit later when I learned that everyone in those rooms were just like me. They were coming in to do something good for themselves. I had gone to doctors and psychologists and other professionals but these rooms were just normal regular people trying to help themselves and trying to help others. It is far out that it works and for that I am forever grateful. ..Congrats again! 
Get a big book get a sponsor and work the 12 steps!
Congrats! It took me years to work up the courage to go to a meeting only to find it wasn't scary at all. Glad you are here keep coming back it works if you work it!
Welcome to the lifeboat :)
This makes me so happy to hear! Thanks for sharing your first meeting :)
Look up the set-aside prayer. I too do not have a good relationship with religion and still have a problem with the higher power part AA. But in 4 years of being open minded and using what the set-aside prayer says to take the direction of the fellowship. ..Welcome and enjoy this 24 hours that you have in sobriety. 
I am an Atheist in this program. There are many of us who have achieved longterm sobriety in spite of all of the religiosity and god talk...For now my best advice to you is to understand that the program is not perfect and it is not right about everything. The last page of the big book even admits "we know only a little"...Therefore take what works and leave the rest. But also don't feel like you have to fake the god stuff. It's okay to trust your true authentic self o a certain degree. And if your true self will never find solace in the belief of the supernatural or the practice of telepathically speaking to a Father in the sky then don't go there...You don't even need to hold hands and pray. I stand outside the circles these days. ..Human power is what makes this program work for me. That's it. 
The lady who pointed out the good meetings was showing you where she attends and how often. Instead of waiting for a week consider going to those meetings she indicated. In the beginning for most of us the meetings take the place of drinking and going a whole week without a drink may be stretching things too thinly. Best to attend as often as you drank each week until you get your feet on solid ground...And you'll get to see this lady again possibly get some additional useful pointers from her.
Remember it is usually older members who have been sober the longest. These are the people who have the wisdom of recovery to share with you. 
I went to my first meeting almost five years ago. First good decision I ever made. More good decisions followed due to regularly going to AA. Keep coming back.  
Welcome to the new life. You'll hear an endless number of useful slogans in AA and here's one of them: You keep me sober. Every time a person shares an experience about the gifts of sobriety about the joys and pains in recovery we listeners benefit. So thank you for sharing with us for helping us...I went to my first AA meeting in July of this year with a friend who has been sober for three decades. Like you I was concerned about the God aspect of the program but that was nothing compared with the waves of humanity that came my way just as they did for you. The smiles the handshakes the welcomes the sincerity. I had no idea what I was going to get from the meeting but it was more than enough to make me want more. Today I go to one or two meetings each day and it's like being in a warm womb. (My sponsor quipped "Yeah mostly in church basement wombs.")..I'm still an agnostic but a sober one and the rough edges of my antagonism to belief has softened a bit. No doubt you'll find some comfort within yourself on that score along with all the other good things that come your way...So call those ladies with questions or thoughts even just to say hi. We keep each other sober. Thanks.
Women's meetings are the shit. I've met some great men in the program  but the women saved my life.  What helped me was finding the old timers and listening to them  along with finding a few "road dogs" women around my age who I share common interests with to hang with.  ..So glad your first meeting was such a success! Congrats :)
