-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7jthxe/first_time_trying_to_stop_time_has_slowed_down/

I apologize if this doesn't feel like the right sub for this but I'm pretty sure my problems stem more from alcohol than from depression...I'm 31 and have struggled with depression since I was 13. Mental illness runs in my family as does alcoholism. When I was younger I couldn't believe how foolish my aunt was for not taking her meds and self medicating with drugs and alcohol. Flash forward to now when I suddenly realized I'm guilty of exactly the same thing. Sure I've stayed on my meds but every doctor has told me that if I drink just know that the next day will feel like I never took my meds the day before. Well after a 3 year relationship ended on top of being miserable at my job my drinking slowly increased until I couldn't remember a day in recent memory when I hadn't had a drink. Those drinks also progressed from beer and wine to vodka cocktails to gin cocktails until finally I was just sitting here alone drinking straight gin...Last weekend I had a heart-to-heart with my mom about how I'm sick of battling my depression and I wanted to end my life because it's not worth the constant fight. She understood my feelings and obviously told me it would be devastating to her and everyone around me but at least acknowledged where I was coming from. What really struck me though was how proud she was of me for  putting in so much hard work  and  trying so many different things  to beat the depression. That's when it occurred to me that I WASN'T putting in the hard work and that I had just given up a long time ago. I proceeded to drink a bottle of wine and four cocktails after she went to bed and woke up feeling no hangover whatsoever. That was when I decided I had to stop. I had to at least try my hardest before throwing my life away. That was on Sunday and it feels like I've been trying this sober thing for weeks and I can't believe *it's only been 5 days*...I live in NYC and drinking is very much a part of work culture at my company. Everyone drinks in the office on Friday evenings and many work events end at bars. Because everyone uses public transit no one worries about driving or being over the limit which often translated to there being no limit. As long as we made it home it was a successful night. Well I'm proud to say that last night I went to a work event and for the first time turned down the drink bracelet at the door. I was also shocked that I had a great time despite being completely sober. I passed on going out after just because it still feels a bit new for the temptation but I'm still proud of myself. The real test will be next week at our office Christmas party where my usual thought process is  drink as much as possible because it's one of the few things this horrible company will give you for free!  Hopefully this year I can just enjoy the time with my coworkers or head home if it truly is only fun if you're drunk. (Something tells me that's not the case just another excuse I've made to continue my drinking)..I'm hoping the week starts moving faster; I'll feel more optimistic once I've got a full week under my belt..
----------immediate responses--------

I found that trying to stop by willpower was the hardest thing in the world when I started to go to AA I suddenly found the relief I was looking for. No longer had to tough it out on my own and I realised it became easier and easier to say no to a drink. The comment above mine saying how NY is a great place to get sober is 100% true those big cities with a huge drinking culture have some of the best meetings in the world and I would kill to be able to go to a NY meeting! I would say try it out? You don't have to commit to anything or even speak to anyone but maybe going to listen might be really interesting for you? Good luck anyway you sound really smart and introspective :)
One minute one hour one thought one day at a time.  That's all it takes: the exact "now" that is the struggle.  I highly recommend do NOT add 'em all up as if there is a goal of some sort!  The goal is "infinity days in a row" and basically it seemed unreachable to me.  2nd time in all I did was worry about "now" ... for whatever period of time "now" happened to be (if that makes any sense).  Eventually my momentary battles with the urge to drink turned into 30 days then 60 days ... and is now a wee bit over 9 years...Anyway "one day at a time" is a really really good idea :)
Well I've made it a week. The feeling of accomplishment I'd hoped for just isn't there. My depression is back despite my best efforts to stay busy go to the gym and most importantly stay sober. Made plans to go to a meeting with a friend this afternoon but he just told me he's too hungover to go. I've never felt so alone. Beginning to wonder if all this work is even worth it.
