-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7kg6dz/helping_partner_and_myself/

Hi Friends..Hope you are doing well. Congrats and at the same time Good Luck for doing your best to stay sober. I know it's a constant struggle but then - where there is a will there's a way...I am here as I needed your inputs and guidance on how do I help my partner and at the same time don't lose myself in the process...Me and my partner are married for close to 8 months. He is a really talented guy with a very good heart. And I am happy to have him. But I am scared that I might lose him to alcoholism...He drinks like once a week or sometime twice. But whenever he does he don't eat anything and is completely wasted..He also takes anxiety medication - celexa..Off late I have noticed that he trembles and is so scared and his body shivers. .I feel it is cognitive difficulty. Not sure if this is common but it definitely puts me completely in a panic mode..He has hurt himself pretty badly many times after drinking and also got a DUI recently..I don't let him drive anymore for his safety . .He is US born and comes from a broken family also his upbringing was rough so I try to be as much understanding and patience with him..But then I see his alcohol issue is draining me mentally emotionally and also financially...About me I come from a conservative Indian background and have never had alcohol in life and haven't seen anyone in my family having alcohol..All these seems so overwhelming for me but I wanna help him and have a happy life with him... I am thinking of the below options:-.a) Request him to start going to AA (Might be hard to start but think is the best option). I will also accompany him..b) Take him to Dr and get medication..I got to know from him Mom that he was taking Antabuse couple of years back. But my partner says it gives him seizures.. Not sure which medication is good - Antabuse Vivitrol or Campral..I do not want to harm him physically or emotionally in the process of helping him...Lastly I wanna take care of myself too. I don't want to leave him but at the same time I don't want to break myself in this struggle...Your experience and inputs will be very helpful...Thanks.#
----------immediate responses--------

This is a tough situation and he is very fortunate to have your love and concern! And *you* are wise to be aware that there's a danger of you breaking yourself--the best way to ensure that you don't is to request that he go to AA. Only go with him to the first meeting or two (making sure that it's an "open" meeting meaning non-AA people can be there). After that it's up to him. Just let him know that his drinking could be a marriage killer. A sad fact of life alcoholism teaches us is that we must each save ourselves. Please go to Alanon to learn how to handle dealing with an alcoholic. ..And whatever happens---don't get pregnant until he's sober for at least a few years. 
See /r/Alanon. 
I would offer that you suggest AA and only offer to go if he asks you about that.  To an alcoholic like me if you offered to go with I'd assume you were monitoring me which isn't the impression you want to give eh?  So leave it unsaid because even though I might read something into that if I bother to discuss it with you then you can make the offer...Oh and for sure find al-anon for yourself.  You can tell him "you should seriously consider AA ... and for myself I am going to go to al-anon to learn how to best deal with this situation".  Al-anon is for people like you caught up in the destruction wrought by people like me :)
