-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7mh53z/considering_aa/

So I've been considering going to a meeting recently. I've come to the realization that I have a problem after years of high functioning alcohol abuse. I'm a bit worried about attending a meeting not sure what to expect. I wouldn't want to show up to a meeting and not be well received. I'm fully aware that there are others out there that struggle greatly and perhaps more so than myself with alcohol abuse. (My mother being one)...I'm not sure if this is the place to post this or if this is a place to discuss openly about the issues with alcohol one has either. ..Thanks 
----------immediate responses--------

AA meetings are generally really friendly and warm places...Nobody will make you talk.  But you can talk if you want to...Try a few meetings out.  Can it hurt?
Good place 2 post ..I've never been arrested never lost a job I still had friends and a place 2 live when I got here but everything wasnt cool..And it was more obvious than I had realized..Worst thing I did was compare how bad i had it compared to others there's always people more beat up than you..Best thing I did was get involved and follow suggestions
The only requirement to show up at a closed (alcoholics only) AA meeting is the desire to stop drinking. Meetings are generally a reflection of those who attend them as there's no formal structure so if you go to a few you may find them to be pretty different. No harm in trying a few out. I promise you won't be worse off for the effort.
Check the sidebar of /r/Alcoholism. Scroll down and you will find an excellent explanation of what to expect at an AA meeting. 
It is totally fine to go sit in the back do nothing and say nothing. there will probably be others doing the same thing. They may ask if it is anyone's first meeting - you can remain silent or raise your hand and give your first name. Up to you. Once you go to your first meeting you see there is nothing to worry about. ..There is no contest to see who has suffered more. The common bond is all have suffered consequences ranging from being hungover to wasting money and time to "whatever". 
Welcome friend!  Meetings are pretty laid back affairs although I did find one that seemed really uptight and grumpy.  It's really easy to be at your first meeting even though it's really hard to actually go to it.  Weird but it is what it is ya know?..It'll be a bunch of people who happen to have one thing in common and a desire to solve that common problem - alcohol. ..If you can find your area's website they'll have a schedule posted.  You'll probably want a "discussion" meeting or maybe a "newcomers" meeting.  There are lots of formats those 2 being the easiest for a newcomer to feel at ease.  Speaker meetings aren't bad and book study meetings are kinda not where you're at I'd say...Anyway they'll have a pot of coffee and a bunch of people just talkin'.  Go a few minutes early and say hi to people.  They'll probably ask if there are any newcomers so you could say "yeah hi my name is ncp2017 and I think I might have a problem with alcohol" ... but ... you don't have to say or do anything.  Like I said we're pretty laid back :)
You won't have to attend many meetings before hearing from members functioning far beyond your abilities who did something about their problem fairly early in life and struggled with the problem far less than you have...You'll fit into the mix just fine.
Appreciate that. Thank you for responding.
I went to my first meeting today and one of the guys said he waited way too long to join AA because he thought you had to have a DUI to join.  I'm new to this too and am also a high functioning alcoholic.  I felt inspired and very welcome.  I recommend you go.
There are a million good speakers on YouTube if you would like to hear what AA can offer. 
I did not want to go to one of these meeting and when I finally did I really enjoyed it and was so happy that I had gone. Today I'm celebrating 75 days of alcohol sobriety that would not have been possible without the support found in these AA rooms. ..I've been to other meetings since that I didn't like as much so feel free to try a few and see which group clicks with you. 
Nothing to worry about. Check it out do what feels right to you. ..Best wishes!
AA was founded in the idea that we have a common problem and a common solution. I believe we should be talking about the common solution which can only be found in the first 164 pages of the big book. I attend meetings only to carry that message to the new comer. ..I agree there are a lot of poor speakers but like most problems in AA you can blame it on Poor sponsorship. 
First meeting for me was Monday of this week (Christmas day of all days!). I was concerned I wouldn't be welcome because I was far from sober. It wasn't a problem. At all. They were very supportive and I wasnt expected to do anything other than sit back and listen..Give it a try. Early days for me to be an expert but like I said at my second meeting last night in the early days I think it's important to be with other people like us. Having people around me who want me to get better because they've felt the same frustration themselves. It's pretty damn awesome..You can also call the AA number for your area or use the online chat on their website and hear that person's story. That's what convinced me..I wish you luck.
It saved and changed my life.  I recommend giving a few meetings a try till you find one that feels like home.
