-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7mjyni/my_parents_met_in_aa_and_are_now_heading_towards/

My parents met in AA close to 30 years ago and sobriety/abstinence was a part of their wedding vows. I don't know their complete history with relapse and whatnot but I do know they both have relapsed in the past...My mother is still heavily against drinking. So much so that it's quite uncomfortable to have a drink around her. ..Anyway long story short my dad's consumption is out of control but not to him of course. Any time my mother confronts him about it he thinks it's a joke and is in classic denial. He tries twisting the blame on her which is something I'm sure is all too familiar to some of you. My dad was a quiet guy my entire life and he still is when he's sober. When he drinks he has no filter and cusses like a sailor. It's just disgusting. ..It makes me angry seeing my mother upset and him obviously being the source of it all. I could unleash on him but I feel like that isn't the answer. At this rate nothing is going to change without a huge wake up call whether it's something medical or a divorce. He obviously doesn't think my mom is going to do anything...Is there anything I can even do? This is something that's been a problem before my time. My relationship with my dad has never been great. We're both quiet and hide our emotions...Any advice would be greatly appreciated. 
----------immediate responses--------

Go to al anon.
Do not loose hope and i put this to you that going for a divorce is not the best solution for your parent. alcoholism is never easy to give up especially for a man even my wife is still against me taking alcohol which i sometimes take behind without her knowing until i finally gave it up through the help of mother vin but nonetheless i have a good news for you and your mum only  because your dad may surely not like to read about this..Have you heard or learnt about Mother Vin..check this link out and thank me later....http://vinmother.blogspot.com/2011/07/vin-mother-welcome-to-world-of-spells.html..Jon
Not a good situation. It is nice that when one drinks the other doesn't have to so you wind up retaining one sane parent. Sounds like your mom has given him a chance to do something which is very kind of her...And there is always the chance your dad may sober up again down the road can't be predicted if/when...You've got a pedigree so keeping track of your alcohol abuse might be wise. I'm sure alcoholism doesn't look attractive to you and you'd prefer not to endure all that but the facts are that neither of your folks ever wanted the problem that they share.
