-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7mk67w/sober_but_stuck/

I've got a year and a half sober and now the question is  now what? . ..Honestly I'm struggling to find purpose and maintain relationships and I don't know what to do to maintain .Emotional sobriety. How do we continue to grow once we find a return to sanity?
----------immediate responses--------

Keep working the steps.  Increase prayer and meditation. Work with the new comer. Do service work.
Keep in mind that all we are promised is today..I just reached four-years. They told me in treatment all of the damage I did to my brain. The serotonin and dopamine levels will be all out of whack for up to five years. My sponser has never steered me wrong. 
Guidance is all around us. Have faith in this and know that you are in good hands. Our rigorous efforts release generous rewards.
Service. Service. Service. If you've finished the 12 steps you're ready for a sponsee of your own! 
I'm coming up on 9 years and am feeling the same way. I think everyone here has posted the correct answer to both of our problems helping another person. It times you a great sense of purpose and at the same time it helps you not to focus on yourself. Being that we are selfish by nature this is extremely beneficial...
I still feel that way sometimes. I'm strong and okay until I'm not. Then I get to a meeting do some service work or talk to another alcoholic. ..Don't get me wrong AA is not my life. But it is the part of my life that helps the rest. ..I may never be as emotionally sober and strong as I would like to be so I just have to do the one day at a time thing. ..
2nd year you're in is sometimes thought of as the period in which we make strides mentally...we're often not as nuts at the end as we were at the beginning and can begin to think out our problems better than before. 3rd year is often when our emotions will rise and settle down to something that approaches normal for weeks in a row...That's given that we stay connected and continue making average efforts to progress...Now what? More and again.
Mark H &amp; Dave F have a nice series on emotional sobriety that has helped jump start the program in my life from time to time. ..[Here's the link](https://www.recoveryaudio.org/speaker/emotional-sobriety-workshop-dave-f-and-mark-h)
There's no rules to living sober don't let anyone spell out your life for you. I would do things that don't involve bars or parties for starters. I would try to help others in recovery or just elderly special needs folks what ever you thing will give you purpose. Animal shelter recycling programs just get involved positively somewhere! good luck to you
Work steps.
For me there's nothing like sponsoring a newcomer to recommit myself to my sobriety. Going through the big book again walking them through the steps living by example all makes me feel closer to the level of  emotional sobriety I need to maintain. If I'm in a rut I know it's time to start sponsoring someone new. 
