-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7mp8b8/recognising_my_problem/

I am quite young in my twenties. This makes it a bit difficult to engage in discussion about alcoholism most of my friends would just say  you are young you are just in your party phase'. I'm lucky to have my father around who is a recovering alcoholic he has been sober now for over 18 years and I am so proud of  him and I'm lucky to have such a good example to follow. This post discusses a binge drinking session and potential sexual assault? It's difficult to comprehend. I'm sorry if this is difficult to read but if you may be triggered or upset by those topics please leave the post...Recently my partner went away to visit family over the Christmas holidays I couldn't afford the flights due to lots of contributing factors. I was crushed that I couldn't go with him but I hold no grudge against him for going. I'm happy he spent time with family as they do not see him often. Every single day that he was gone I drank alcohol. I would start as early as 9am some days and it would continue until I fell asleep. I'm so angry at myself because I ended up in a situation that was not okay a friend that I trusted came over with another friend my expectations just being hanging out with music games and not being alone for Christmas Eve. I drank to the point of blacking out and the next morning woke up with my  trusted' friend in bed with me naked. I have bruises all over me from what happened and I was so betrayed. He knows my partner and at one stage was close with my brother and father. I couldn't believe what happened. I drank again all that day because I was so distraught. I feel as if I've been unfaithful to my partner and I feel violated. It's very conflicting because I had no clue what I was engaging in...I called my father after my partner had gotten back and told my dad everything. I'm at his house now and we've been talking about alcohol abuse. I feel so guilty. As my username suggests I have realised that alcohol is becoming a problem. I always believed that I was an intelligent individual and I would know when to reign in myself I've never been a party animal and I didn't start drinking til well after my 18th (legal age in my country). I'm shocked that I let it go on for so long I look back at my drinking behaviours for the past year and realise that I always made sure alcohol was in my home for me to drink whereas when I started I would only socially drink when I went out (which again was very rarely - I've only been out  clubbing' three times). I've had an abusive past with a step-father figure and this affects me to this day I have been using alcohol to try and drown these issues and I know I need to stop. Sorry that this is jumping around lots of different topics I'm trying to piece it all together and make sense. I don't even really know what this post is to do but I needed somewhere to vent...My partner has been sober for over a year and a half I am so proud of him. I can't believe that I've become what I tried so hard to steer him away from. I told him that I'm stopping drinking but didn't mention anything about what happened with my  trusted friend'. Not because he would blame me but I just want to move on and I really don't want to be seen as a fragile victim by him. I'm sorry if this isn't the right place to post I'm struggling a lot with understanding it all right now and I hope this is okay. Please delete if not. ..So many of my family members have fallen victim to alcohol abuse and I vowed not to. I can't believe I let myself slip into this pattern. I did not sleep for two days I did not eat at all for two days during the days leading up to this incident. If that wasn't a red flag I don't know what would have made me figure it out. I feel so stupid so naive and so terrible for allowing myself to be in that situation. ..I've decided to stop drinking and engage the counsel of my father psychological support and my partner. I don't think I would be suitable to attend an AA meeting I feel like I may be laughed at. I just want to catch this problem early on and not let this happen again. I can see alcohol easily destroying my study my future career and my relationships with everyone important to me. ..Sorry again I hope I'm okay with posting this. Please remove if it is not appropriate. I just really needed somewhere to write this and I don't think it's appropriate for anywhere else. ..
----------immediate responses--------

No one at an AA meeting would laugh at you. The only requirement is a desire to stop drinking. Alcoholism runs in families. We are good people with a bad disease. There is help and recovery. I have been sober years longer than you are old. ..I started by getting a therapist who "nudged" me onto the road to recovery. AA helped save my life. Reading *Under the Influence* by Ketchum and Milam helped me understand and accept my alcoholism. 
As /u/SOmuch2learn already said no one at AA will laugh at you or not accept you as one of our own. You do realize I'm sure that drinking into a blackout isn't how normal people drink?  We do they don't. Please: find yourself a meeting and join us on the road of happy destiny.  We'll be here for ya :).
Oh hey you mentioned you are quite young.  A couple of months ago I went to a weekend AA getaway.  The daytime "young peoples" speaker was a woman about 25 with over 5 years sobriety.  In and out of rehabs before she was legally allowed to drink...Alcoholism doesn't discriminate nor do alcoholics :)
I'm a bit concerned that you mentioned you woke up with bruises would it be a good idea to talk to a counsellor?
If you feel bad because one time you got drunk and climbed a fence to a zoo and fucked a zebra while eating an ice cream cone....you'll eventually meet someone whose done that too. Nobody is going to laugh at you. 
