-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7nthps/one_year_sober_today/

I can't believe I made it this far. As of today January 3 2018 I have been sober for 1 year. ..I still struggle every day. I think about drinking multiple times a day and still physically crave it but I'm very thankful that it's not as all consuming as it was. ..I also struggle with the same and guilt associated with being an alcoholic. My family and the few friends I've shared my sobriety with have been amazingly supportive but I still feel ashamed. ..But today... today I am celebrating. One freaking year sober. Last year on this day I was just hoping to make it through the next minute the next hour. And now here I am. Thank God. .
----------immediate responses--------

Well done keep the momentum.
Congratulations!
Yaaaaay
Congratulations on a year. Dr Bob - one of AA's co-founders craved alcohol for 2 years after he quit so you are not alone. For inspiration and a clue to how Bob got through his second and subsequent years read (and re-read) ["Dr Bob's Nightmare"](https://www.aa.org/assets/en_US/en_bigbook_personalstories_partI.pdf) - it's the first of many personal stories of recovery in the book Alcoholics Anonymous
I'm on the third day now and crave alcohol  hope to get to one year 
I can't say what your future is and I didn't know mine until it became my past ... of course.  For me I was sober about 15 months and struggling every day against the urge to drink before the obsession to drink was removed.  That was a really cool day :)
Congratulations! One day at a time. You can't change the past you can't control the future you just have to control the moment.
**High^Five for 365 /u/kolty910!**      
Congrats! That is awesome! I know it's a 24 hour program of practice not perfection. 
That's awesome congratulations. Thanks for helping me
Way to go I aspire to that goal! 
Congrats on the 1 year. What a massive accomplishment. I will be clean from booze 2 years in 2 days I remember my one year like it was yesterday time flies...even if you can recall every bit of it ;)..Guilt and shame my best worst friend. I deal with it everyday. Sometimes it reminds me why I got clean to begin with  The fights embarrassing moments arrests...and others times it makes me want to crawl into a hole and literally hide under a blanket. I'll find myself in the shower and suddenly I will shutter thinking about the things I've done or lay in bed like I am now wide awake wondering if I'm the only one who's done terrible things in the past as a drunk. Feel like I could make Marylyn Manson look like a saint.  But I never fail to remind myself that without quitting booze I'd be dead or in jail. I have a relationship that means something and my head is clear-ish feels good. ..Being sober and being clean are different things in my mind.  You can be clean and not sober.  For instance  even to this day I will lash out and/or handle a situation poorly like I would have when I was drunk. It was how I learned to solve my problems. A learned behavior so to speak or as I like to call it...The path of least resistance for the brain.  Combating this (for me anyway)seems to be a  cocktail  of keeping track of times I lose control and reconstructing a better approach after the fact and also finding out what triggers my lapse in judgement to begin with.   ..Getting clean is the most amazing this I've done with my life. It is hard work very. I expect hard times but I am prepared for them now. I am 31 years old I spent 13 years in a bottle I will not go back. .
