-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7ogitg/im_at_a_loss/

Need advice. As the S/O of someone who struggles with drinking I'm interested to hear from others how they want to be supported. What's the best way to go about this? What would be most beneficial to you? A little backstory: my s/o went about 9 months without had a pretty hefty relapse this past summer and has struggled every couple months since. I'm trying to be supportive but I become a monster when they drink. I'm at my wits end. I just found out they've been drinking again tonight and I'm so frustrated because this really could have been avoided. Its just a couple beers so far so they're a saying it won't be an issue. Until tonight It's been about a week since the last drink. My immediate reaction is to get upset and I tend to lecture. Which I hate. So what should I do? Part of me thinks I should go home (we don't live together) and calm myself down. But then I get these crazy thoughts like...what if they do something stupid and hurt themselves or someone else? What if me leaving them alone tonight makes them so depressed it gets worse? I feel trapped and like there's no good way to respond to this without either feeling like I'm abandoning them or without confronting and making them feel even worse about themselves. So if you were the one sitting at home after a couple beers right now how would you want your s/o to respond? What would help you out the most?? .Thanks 
----------immediate responses--------

I'm not sure what to tell you my wife has supported me through recovery but all I ever wanted was to be left to my drinking etc. when I was active. I would suggest you check out r/alanon though. This is probably more their department. 
An alcoholic deep in the drink wants to drink so anything you say or do will be cast in their minds as either an opportunity or a threat...&gt; So if you were the one sitting at home after a couple beers right now how would you want your s/o to respond?..First there ain't no such thing as "a couple of beers" no matter how much I liked to people.  Second I would want my s/o to mind their own fucking business because I got everything under control and I'll lie through my fucking teeth to god himself if that's what it takes to not interrupt my drinking.  Oh and yeah I'm an alcoholic of the worst sort...Here's something that MIGHT be workable: make your feelings known but do not impose restrictions or expectations.  If the drinking causes you to worry then say that.  If sometimes you feel like just bugging out then say that.  Don't say "do this or else" because a real alcoholic won't believe you.  Just speak from your side and be prepared for this person to want booze more than you.  It sucks but sometimes we're really bad people to know.  By the way that is why al-anon is such an awesome organization.  They are entirely of and about people who's lives are in turmoil because they are in the area of destruction an alcoholic like me will cause.  
If someone is in active alcoholism that's it.  It's a selfish obsession. No matter what is happening on the outside: relationships money jobs children legal issues etc... None of it matters. That's why they teach in alanon to detach.  The alcoholic is powerless to their disease.  It's a fruitless endeavor to try to manage it.   The best thing a S/O of an alcoholic can do is to focus on themselves be the healthiest they can be.  
I would suggest attending al anon meetings in person rather than going to the al anon subreddit.
First off keep you're sanity and self care in mind first. ..If your s/o is in fact alcoholic then they are suffering active within their disease. Always keep them in a place of love and prayerful consideration...I would suggest two actions: ..1.) Get a copy of and read cover to cover the book Alcoholics Anonymous. If your s/o ask what or why your reading the book it is an effort to learn about what they are going through in the hope of being helpful and supportive...2.) Attend 5 different Alanon meetings all with an open heart and open mind. Pick the one you enjoy the most and begin to attend regularly to help establish a fellowship of support...The next step will present itself quite naturally from there...You can't fix them. It's journey along a tight rope into the bowels of hell if you think you can. You can love tolerate and pray for them ever mindful that sometimes the greatest love is letting go...I hope this is helpful. I am 6years sober and ive been thru a lot of relationships drunk and sober.
This is all such good advice I really hope you do some of what is suggested and it all works out ok   
I just lost my wife to alcohol. I tired everything I could to try to help. The best thing to do is get help from someone like an expert. I tried talking to her but nothing worked. Also the best thing is to be there with them and be the nicest you can. Don't let it get you mad and give up. 
Getting active in Al-Anon is the best action for you and the alcoholic you love.  This is exactly the situation Al-Anon helps with.
AlAnon
