-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7otxm5/i_need_help_but_wont_seek_it/

hi there. i am a 27 year old female who struggles with alcoholism and substance abuse. i know that i need help but i can't find it within myself to seek help...i constantly binge drink do coke pop addies and stay up all night. and i always end up regretting it. i understand the consequences of my actions (physically emotionally socially) but it doesn't seem like it will ever be enough to make me stop. i constantly fear for the state of my heart...i am currently on an all-nighter - i drank last night for my cousin's birthday but couldn't sleep because i popped some addie...what do you when you nothing seems like it can motivate you to change? i genuinely feel hopeless sometimes.
----------immediate responses--------

wait til it gets bad enough I guess. Things are fun in the beginning and quickly turn. 
Hopelessness is a common feeling for many of us who have been in your shoes. You have reached out though- to us here. You said you can't find it *within yourself * to make the changes. Neither could I. So I went to AA. Got a sponsor  a 12 step programme &amp; a semblance of a life back. It's not all rainbow's &amp; unicorns. Not by a long shot. But I don't feel dead inside. I have laughter in my life. Real deep down to your toes laughter. Smiling seems to happen a lot more often than crying  (although that happens too!).  I have hope.. You can too. If that seems too much for you right now I'll carry it &amp; hope for you. Can you get to a meeting?  If for nothing else at least you know you're among people who understand.  I do hope you're OK.  
If nothing changes... nothing changes. If you can't be bothered then you won't change.  Good luck 
Find a meeting in your area and just show up.  I encourage.you to share with the group there just what you've shared here.  You will be amazed at the local resources they can point you to that could change your way of life altogether.  If you go to a meeting that you don't care for you don't ever have to go back.  Go find another one and keep sharing your story.  We're all out here to help each other.  Good luck to you.
Maybe at 37? Later in life? Must say you're tougher than I. Living the drinking life was way too hard on me. Had to change for the better in order to lose the unpleasant and painful dramas.
Recovery is for those who want it not those who need it.  If you don't want it yet that's okay.  Every addict I've talked with who had a successful recovery reached a point where they realized they were done and they could not live their life that way anymore.  If you're not there yet then hopefully you can get there without too many consequences.  But if you're not ready then I'd bet you'll find in more frustrating to try and fail.  Best of luck to you.
Honestly I have tons of experience in what you are going through right now. And it sucks.   .   .I would urge you to break away from any adderall/coke connects you have. Delete the numbers try to forget about them stop contacting them. Yes it really does suck when they seem like close friends to you (If that's the case) but you have to distance yourself from that behavior.   .   .When you go out and drink and do coke or add at the same time it becomes hard to drink without it. I would try to ween yourself off of the coke and adderall stuff for a week then ditch alcohol the next week. Sometimes it sucks but you kinda have to lay low for a while. It won't be too hard getting off the adderall and coke just stay away from the people who encourage it or give it to you.    .   .I still have my issues with alcohol sometimes but I haven't done any coke or adderall in a couple years. I am now 11 days sober from alcohol so that one is kinda a tougher cookie to crack. But once you cut the adderall and the coke out you can focus on taking the alcohol issue one day at a time. Anyways hope you are doing alright. Take care. 
