-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7p1roa/im_having_a_hard_time_and_need_some_advice/

So just past 30 days sober and I am in this thing now. I've dedicated my whole life to staying sober. When I originally started this my sister in law had just recently become sober as well so we were a big support for each other. Hearing her happiness gave me the nudge I needed to do what I already knew I wanted but struggled with. ..After a couple of weeks she relapsed. When she does this she disappears for days at a time which is very hard for me because we are super close. This past relapse I didn't hear from her for 5 days. I finally talked to her today and she told me everything she had experienced and how she doesn't want to do this anymore and is struggling. ..After this past relapse I want to help her in any way I can to stay sober knowing that it's ultimately up to her. I need advice on what to say to her when she disappears for days as well as what to do when she calls and is struggling and wants to drink but is calling so she doesn't do it. what do I say??
----------immediate responses--------

She'll get you drunk before you get her sober. It's been suggested that if you want to take her to rehab or a meeting that you bring some outside sober support along for yourself. It sucks trying to help someone who doesn't want to drink but also doesn't want to do the work required to start a healthy journey of sobriety...If she has any willingness try to cultivate it tell her what works in your experience sponsorship and meetings etc..So reach out and call someone in the rooms with your dilemma and ask for help. For her and yourself. Hope she gets well....
You can say something like "you know I'm not drinking with you and you know we both want to be sober" ... or something like that eh?..Are you going to meetings?  Do both of you attend the same meetings?  If not you really should consider it ... for both you and her!  30 days is very early in sobriety.  Still close enough to how it was to have strong memories that pretend to be good memories so I'd suspect she's falling for that old trick ... "the present is really really hard and the past seemed so much better" ya know?  That clears with time so getting the time is always the battle.  That's where your AA family should come in really handy :)
Please take care of yourself. I know you love your sister-in-law but in this case you cannot help her. I would refuse to talk with her when she is drinking or asking you to drink with her. ..You tell her to get a therapist and go to meetings. That's it. You can't make her want what you want. I'm sorry. You can only control your own behavior. Staying sober is hard so it is important to stay focused on not drinking today. Go to AA meetings and talk with your sponsor about this situation. If you don't have one get one. 
The number one.....Absolute best thing you can do.....STAY SOBER YOURSELF.   
Amen!
I can relate to you I came into AA with a friend of mine and we went to lots of meetings together and had the same sponsor for a while and when he went back to drinking i struggled with it...As a typical alcoholic I assumed that i needed to "fix this" and was looking for the way to do that. I was wrong I didn't need to fix anything he is still drinking today and i am still sober we see each other once in a while and i must say that he is drinking far more successfully than i ever could. Watching him has been enlightening sure  he drinks too much sometimes but it is not destroying his life the way it was to me. He seems to be ok with his state and i need to accept it...There may be something you can do to help and I'm going to make a small but important distinction here that you will get more familiar with the longer you stay sober. There is nothing you can say to make someone get sober you already know this but with best intentions you want to help...So if there are no magic words then what CAN you do? I can do my best to point out the dishonesty that i hear the justifications the excuses if i am able to distinguish these clearly and i point them out to my friend i will be "nudging" them towards sobriety. However chances are good that the more i do this - the less they will want to talk to me so expect that...Use the answer that we have been given in the program to "life the universe everything!"......get god in there!  From now on you have an amazing tool at your disposal nobody can take it away from you ever. It is yours as long as you want it. That tool is asking your higher power for help. (my words change them if you like) " god my friend is heading down a dark path i don't like to see that they keep asking me for help and I feel like i am just able to stay afloat myself let alone save someone else from drowning i also feel guilty for staying sober when they don't seem to be able to. I am confused about what to do and what to think please help me"...You may also suggest that this person get a sponsor and call them for help instead of calling you with early sobriety and not too many tools yet it would stand to reason that someone with years of sobriety would be able to help them more no? ...I infer from your post that perhaps this person is caught between the 2 choices and is uncomfortable as hell and in typical alcoholic fashion is not taking responsibility for their own actions ( or lack of) and is looking for an easy way out.......and there isn't one - is there? you already know that and they are still arguing and fighting looking for one. ..Do your best to **encourage** them ( not help- you cannot help ) and thank your higher power that you are not stuck where they are look at them and see yourself in them so you can learn compassion and pray that they can stop fighting and get sober too when they are ready and take care of yourself because you have enough work to do there.
When she calls share your enthusiasm you're feeling for your journey. What's happened lately what you've recently discovered about yourself. Any activities in your AA area that you're looking forward to participating in. The conversations you've had lately that are meaningful to you...No advice or pleading.
