-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7q2wha/sponsorship/

I've been working with my sponsor for about 2 months now and I feel like I'm not making progress. She's my third sponsor to date. The last sponsor I had was wonderful but she was unable to continue sponsoring me for a good reason...I ended up calling my former sponsor up a few days ago because I was having a rough time. I did more work with her in a couple of hours on the phone than I have in the past 2 months with my current sponsor. ..Former sponsor says she's willing to sponsor me again after I expressed that things aren't clicking with my new sponsor. ..Ultimately I am responsible for my sobriety and I feel like I should return to my former sponsor because I feel like I will grow spiritually with her as my sponsor as opposed to staying stagnant with my current one. ..Any advice on how to go about this? Anyone have any experience they are willing to share?..Thanks and happy 24!..Edit: just to clarify my gut is telling me that the best move for my sobriety is to go back to my former sponsor but I'm struggling with telling my current sponsor this. My apologies... I didn't get out what I wanted to ask for help with in the initial post. 
----------immediate responses--------

Find someone who can take you through the steps. Quickly. That's what matters the most. 
I appreciate you taking the time to chat with me. The more I talk with different people the more I grow. I try my best these days to keep an open mind and consider what's being presented to me : )
I've been  let go  as a sponsor a few times twice for a different style. I go through the steps very quickly because that's how I was taught and that's where I believe the program works. Both times the women I was sponsoring wanted to take things a different way...Sure it stung my ego. Ultimately I had a mini self pity party spoke to my sponsor and some fellows about it had a bunch of prayer moments handing it over and ultimately just wished them well...Your sobriety is the most important thing in your life my friend. It comes above all else including the possible feelings of another. Thank them for their time and explain that you're going to return to your old sponsor to pick up where you left off because they are now available. Just an idea. Simplicity is always key   gratitude simple explanation and more gratitude...All the best with your step work!
Go back to your previous sponsor.  Doesn't have to be something you agonize over- if her sponsorship is better for your sobriety that's what you do.  If your current sponsor has much insight into their role as a sponsor telling her should be no big deal.
You have ideas about how you should be sponsored the best way to get you the most relief in the shortest amount of time. You want to be with the sponsor who is willing to do things in the way you'd like best because you know what you need and others cannot fully understand your needs and circumstances...I new one guy who had 9 sponsors during his first year. Probably the record. You're on track to break that...
Just kindly let your current sponsor know that you are grateful for all the time and energy she has given to you you but your old sponsor is now able to sponsor you again and you think that is best for your sobriety. If she's working a good program she will just be happy told the truth and are continuing to grow in recovery even if someone else. 
It's okay to break-up with a sponsor and anyone working a good program will understand that. You have no control over how anyone thinks or feels. ..Just be honest that you're going to work with your old sponsor keep it simple. Good luck to you!..
It shouldn't be a big deal to switch sponsors. Just be polite and courteous about it remembering that this is just another person with your same disease not a professional of some kind that is different that yourself. Maybe some of your reservation about going through with it is just the uncomfortable thought of actually telling them you do not want their sponsorship that might take a little bit of careful planning. Good luck!
As long as my sponsee's motives are pure I want them to work with the very best sponsor for them even if it is not me.  Your current sponsor should understand and maybe even take a lesson from the experience.  Perhaps moving back to the old sponsor is a lesson in the dangers of people pleasing for you.  In any event follow your heart don't drink.
A good sponsor will never take offense to a sponsee leaving for a better fit. It certainly still happens because we dont live in a perfect world... but... sometimes you gotta break a few eggs to make an omelette.. dont put anyones feelings over your recovery! It is the most important thing you have and must be preserved at all costs if they dont understand thats too bad! I have taken guys through the steps many times and I have had guys go through with someone else for the next run or just leave me for someone else and I take zero offense its not about me! In fact i encourage working steps with many different people and groups to learn as much as possible from as many different angles as possible and thats what I teach my guys. Best wishes
