-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7qn6nm/early_recovery_and_guilt_about_time_away_from/

I am a stay at home mom with 2 young children 3 and 1. I have a supportive husband but I feel like he is getting burnt out with working full time and taking care of the kids after he gets off work so I can go to meetings. I also voluntarily enrolled in an intensive outpatient program that is 3 nights a week 3 hours each...Luckily I noticed the symptoms of my addiction before it got completely out of control. But I could see the writing on the wall and know I'm an addict - especially given my father's many additions. Marijuana was my drug of choice but I am also an alcoholic. ..I'm depressed but I'm being treated for it by therapist and psychiatrist. A part of my recovery is my desire to stop drinking and using drugs to ignore my feelings. My anxiety is through the roof. I have so much guilt. I'm dealing with withdrawals from the pot and alcohol. No shakes or anything like that but angry irritable moody... You know. ..My sober date is 1/12/18 so I'm in the super early stages of recovery and am working on the first step. I've been to 2 meetings so far and I love it. It makes me feel so good to be around people who can relate to my struggles without judgement...My husband has never drank a drop of alcohol in his life nor done drugs so it's an interesting dynamic with us. He never really minded the drinking but wasn't a fan of the pot but because we live in a legal state he sort of let it go. Of course he never knew how much I was using when he wasn't around and I hid a lot of the use I did when he was home. We addicts think we're sneaky like that. ..He is supportive but I feel like it's hard for him to grasp the reality of addiction. He didn't know I had a problem because being a non-user himself he had no way to judge what was "healthy" (non-addict) use. I used that to my advantage of course. ..I just want to hear how others felt with being absent from your families during the early stages of recovery. Did your partner get burnt out? I am so crippled with depression right now so I am not even keeping up with the house. All I want to do right now is read the big book and meditate. It sounds selfish...I know we must take care of ourselves before we can take care of others and begin to have meaningful relationships again but I just feel so guilty. And needy...We've got family to help some but they can't do much more than they have been. And they've been doing a lot (watching kids cleaning our house folding laundry)...I feel lucky and so grateful for their help but just can't shake the feeling that I am a burden...Also it's probably worth mentioning that my husband is coming to family nights (once a week) at my outpatient program so he will be getting a better education on addiction but it will just take time...Thanks for any stories you can share or encouragement.
----------immediate responses--------

Have you also invited him to AA meetings with you?  It can be a weird dynamic I guess but for him to see what it is may be beneficial?..It'll all work out!  You are very early in recovery so thinking of things like this is really cool!..So ... you've probably heard this is a program of action right? And how honesty is good stuff?  So check this out: take some action and be honest :)  Talk to him about the feelings you're talking to us about :)  Let him know you really need this but feel bad because you're feeling like a burden.  I'm sure he knows the outpatient schedule so make sure he knows that time is coming back to family when it is done.  It sounds like you've got both outpatient and AA meetings happening?  It makes a pretty big dent in your available time for 'everything else' but there ain't gonna be an 'everything else' if you don't get your feet on the road of happy destiny ... so let him know that :)..You got this!
I spent my first 30 days in inpatient treatment going home only on weekends. The first thing I learned was that the early stages of my recovery would require me to be selfish and to take care of myself first. I needed my relaxation and meditation every day in order to be right again. I needed time for self care and I needed time for meetings and therapy. What it gives back to my family after 91 days is a more energetic happy and mindful person. My gf appreciates it as she sees the progress I have made from my work. Let your husband know that it takes work and that your meetings and treatment are not escapes for you. I often read passages of the big book to my gf and discuss certain struggles I have. It works for us right now and I feel no guilt at all. I am working on becoming a spirituall and mentally healthirr snd better person..Good luck.
As long as I was really there when home not sticking my head in the tv/internet and ignoring the fam they were ok with my attendance.
I don't have kids but all my friends in the program that do have had it explained to them this way: "the small amount of time you put in now away from your family can allow you to be there for them as they grow older."  6 months or a year in the scheme of a lifetime is a blip on the radar.  I know people who have battled addiction and relapse for their whole kids lives (their kids are late teens and older now) maybe if they had done more work early on than they could have been there to watch their kids grow up instead of in and out of their lives due to addiction.
