-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7qofxp/maybe_i_can_get_some_insight_about_sponsor/

My sponsor has been telling me lately that my choices are bad and that I will relapse if I keep making bad choices.  I'm not sure how to handle it.  She basically is telling me that I have no business going to places that focus on alcohol sales.  I have never felt triggered or tempted in the least.  It seriously doesn't even enter my mind because the people I'm with are very casual drinkers they aren't getting loaded like I used to do.  ..-friend who moved away a year ago was in town for one night over the holidays. A group were meeting with her at a tapas place. I had iced tea/food and it was fine. Sponsor told me to call her before during and after the hour dinner...-childhood friend was in town with some of her friends. They invited me to join them at dinner at a brewpub. We had dinner and they each had one beer I had water. Totally fine but sponsor told me it was a mistake to go...-spouse had company holiday party and it was at a brewpub.  Sponsor told me I had no business going and I was setting myself up to relapse.  It was an open bar so I had 6 seltzers and seriously never even thought about the fact that I was the only person there not drinking.  Not one person was noticeably intoxicated very casual drinking...I'm 7 months sober never have had a relapse and I feel like I'm doing well.  I understand people can relapse once they become comfortable and possibly complacent in their sobriety but in the chapter of the Big Book  Working with Others  it talks about how you couldn't and shouldn't try to completely shield an alcoholic from alcohol and if such steps are necessary they still have an alcoholic mind.  I understand not going to a bar with people who are there to get drunk but isolating myself from all social situations seems like a bad idea too...I guess I'm looking for guidance.  Is my sponsor correct and I should avoid situations like this completely from now on?  Is she being overbearing and rigid in her opinions?  Please share your thoughts.
----------immediate responses--------

Hmmm. ..I mean if I've got a brand new guy that's just starting out then I definitely advise against these types of activities. On the other hand once they've been through the steps and has a spiritual awakening then why shouldn't they do this? I know I do. Hell I live with a casual drinker whom I plan on marrying. There's usually a bottle of wine in my house. ..The book tells us that in fit spiritual condition we can go to these types of things and see what we can bring to them. It also warns us that if we're not in fit spiritual condition then we had better avoid them. It all depends on where you're at. ..Again I don't know you or your history but I can't imagine making one of my guys call me before during  and after something like that. 
I went through a sponsor telling me the same thing based on behaviours I was engaging in. I freaked out and got resentful broke up with him as my sponsor and kept doing what I was doing. My life became very unmanageable and I got a new sponsor and started the steps again at my step 4 I realised that my old sponsor had been correct and based on what is written in the big book I was eventually guaranteed to drink over it. I stopped the behaviour had to confront my defects that had led to the behaviour and eventually made amends to my old sponsor. He was just looking out for me and has a considerable amount more sober life experience than I do.  Lesson learned - grateful I pulled my head out of my ass before I ended up relapsing.  
I think it depends on you and how you're doing your program. ..I made it to AA because of a conversation I had with a guy who works at a bar. He works in the kitchen and we were out smoking one night I told him how lonely I had been and that I wanted to make sober friends but felt like normies wouldn't have me. He invited me to AA and I've gone ever since. ..I think it's prudent advice to suggest staying out of bars but we all experience different levels of temptation. I can occasionally go to the bar and see my friends without worry of relapse but the bartenders also know me and that I'm sober now so they automatically poor me seltzer with ginger ale no questions asked. I also don't go unless a friend specifically calls and wants to meet there and I'm feeling spiritually fit. If there's any question about my feelings on that day I don't go to the bar because I know it only takes about 3 seconds to make a stupid decision. ..I think you have to use your own judgement in this situation...As for your sponsor- in all other areas do you respect this person and have a good relationship? I think that we all run into situations where we don't like advice we've been given but it is important to distinguish between bad advice and resentments towards good advice that we didnt want to hear. 
I think it's best if people learn what they need to know from their experience and trying to steer them clear of trouble against their will is not really a service to them...One sponsee was congratulating himself on how recovered he was at 18 months and then he drank at a wedding without intending to drink at the wedding. Made him nuts for a few months but he made it back right away and died sober 14 years later. So a happy ending for him.
The problem with any of us giving our opinions on this - it's too good you've done far too good of a job making you look like you're victimised by an overbearing and obviously wrong sponsor. I realize you may not have even done it consciously but that is how it reads to me. ..I think the truth lies somewhere in between the 2 extremes of innocent you and overbearing sponsor as i very much doubt a sponsor would nag you to stay away from wet places just to spoil your fun seems unlikely.
Are you working the steps?  Your sponsor just seems concerned.  That's all
I can't really judge your situation. I can tell you that the part of the big book you're referencing is in the chapter devoted to the 12th step. So when it says you can go anywhere that's under the assumption that you've been through the steps.  Exactly where you are in the steps makes some difference here specifically to you.
The total situation between you and your sponsor isn't really going to get conveyed well in a post...You however can discern the overall picture. If anyone's sponsor is exercising control as a pattern just to control its time to find a new sponsor. But we should always check ourselves for misinterpretations and misplaced attributions as to motive and intent...The sponsor/sponsee relationship gone toxic is a real threat to sobriety and sanity. It's always good to stop and analyze if it's really toxic and if the toxicity is actually from the other or from one's self...I can't advise you except to say this is a matter for prayer/discernment/contemplation-whatever word fits your spiritual schema.
Your sponsor is there to help not control your life. If it doesn't feel right make a change.
I tell sponsees that it's a mistake to go somewhere that YOU used to drink and a mistake to go to any event where the main purpose is to get loaded...I also say to avoid ANY place where excessive drinking might take place (open bars for sure) in the first 6 months...I know that my first relapse was because I went to a pub with some friends - a pub I used to frequent when drinking...That all said TALK to your sponsor - tell her how you feel before during and after these events - how she is helping you and how she is making you feel.  Rigorous honesty is a huge part of this program.
I'm sorry but I won't tell you she's wrong and thereby give you a "justified" resentment. ..She's likely looking out for you but she's not your authority. Only one is your authority. 
7 months is great - you're doing awesome! If you feel like your sponsor is overbearing and rigid maybe you should start looking for someone else to be your sponsor. Personally I have hung out with folks who are drinking but it happens very rarely and I've gone through the steps and also go to meetings basically every day. I go to meetings and go through the steps and talk to other AA'ers because it helps me stay sober (so far). Meditate or pray about it and see what happens.
In general a sponsor's ideas about recovery are better than the sponsees because the sponsor has more recovery experience.  It was always a warning sign for me when I sought "second opinions" about my sponsor's suggestions.  It was a sign I needed to scrutinize my motives very carefully.
