-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7qtlbt/struggling_day4/

Had great day all went well went to interview and went really well. Came home to partner lazing around with nothing done in house. Just drives me crazy.  I making all this effort and he doesnt do anything . Makes me think why bother! Then think cause dont wanna be that person anymore. I not drink today 
----------immediate responses--------

If it makes you feel any better the woman I was going to marry in the person that I was with for the past 2 years left me in the middle of me trying to get sober. The first night I hated myself I went out to the bar and drink made every mistake I said I wasn't going to make but right now I'm on day 3 it doesn't seem like I have anything to live for anymore considering I can't see my son and I can't see the person I care about the most but I realize that alcohol won't make anything better it used to be fun it used to be an escape but now it's just a prison and I refuse to be a prisoner. Keep your head up think about how awesome your life is without that daunting Specter of alcohol living above your head go to meetings if you need to seek support tell yourself you're doing the right thing and everything will be okay.
I'm also on day 4 as well. I just want tell you that we're doing the right things and over time they will get better! Try not to focus on what he does or doesn't do right now. If your house gets a bit messy right now that's ok. ..We can do this! 
How will drinking make your relationship better? That sounds bitchy but it's a real question you need to ask yourself every time you want to drink. Are you going to use the situation as an excuse to drink? No one is responsible for your actions except for you...You can do this. You've already done step one - that's the hardest part! One day at a time.
I'm on day 4. And heading to my meeting for the day. It sucks. But we are in this together. I'm not drinking with you.
Kudos for four days /u/ratty510! We cannot always expect support from a partner or spouse. That's why I went to AA meetings. Being in a room with people who understand is comforting. Hang on. I hope you find the support you need and deserve. 
You are not drinking for you. Not for your partner. It's only day 4 but it's the only day that matters.
God willing I will have one month tomorrow ! I wanted to reach out to you  because I understand your frustration ! I have recently been there . I met with my sponser yesterday  we read the chapter how it works  in the big book of AA . In that chapter is a few paragraphs about " an actor playing the director " And that really hit home with me personally .... for the past month I have been miserable  and I've been thinking " if only people do exactly what I need / want them to do I will be ok " . Like  when I come home " if only everyone puts there dishes away  and cleans everything " that is not how life works for me however . I realized I am so selfish and self centered that i get upset that people arnt giving me medals  rolling red carpets  and writing books about me because I got sober and started working the program !..Human power won't keep me sober  only something higher than that will ( I call that god ) I get those thoughts " what's the point " " why bother " I talked to my sponser yesterday about that I was so pissed off at everyone and everything . What should have been a hour-ish long meeting ( I work lots of OT right now  as does he ) turned jnto a 3 hour long meeting . I had a spiritual experience . I didn't see lighting  I didn't see lights or colors or hear any trumpets ...... I just felt warm  and safe ( after saying the third step prayer ) ..ive been following the program as it's laid out  everything isn't rainbows and puppies ( still have debt  still pay a mortgage  heating bill is going to be due soon ) but man  I feel so much better than being drunk and high in a motel room !!!! I sleep in my bed every night. I wake up with no hangover ( and actually get sleep ) . I am so blessed today ..I hope that wasn't " too much " I hope that helps !  .
God willing I will have one month tomorrow ! I wanted to reach out to you  because I understand your frustration ! I have recently been there . I met with my sponser yesterday  we read the chapter how it works  in the big book of AA . In that chapter is a few paragraphs about " an actor playing the director " And that really hit home with me personally .... for the past month I have been miserable  and I've been thinking " if only people do exactly what I need / want them to do I will be ok " . Like  when I come home " if only everyone puts there dishes away  and cleans everything " that is not how life works for me however . I realized I am so selfish and self centered that i get upset that people arnt giving me medals  rolling red carpets  and writing books about me because I got sober and started working the program !..Human power won't keep me sober  only something higher than that will ( I call that god ) I get those thoughts " what's the point " " why bother " I talked to my sponser yesterday about that I was so pissed off at everyone and everything . What should have been a hour-ish long meeting ( I work lots of OT right now  as does he ) turned jnto a 3 hour long meeting . I had a spiritual experience . I didn't see lighting  I didn't see lights or colors or hear any trumpets ...... I just felt warm  and safe ( after saying the third step prayer ) ..ive been following the program as it's laid out  everything isn't rainbows and puppies ( still have debt  still pay a mortgage  heating bill is going to be due soon ) but man  I feel so much better than being drunk and high in a motel room !!!! I sleep in my bed every night. I wake up with no hangover ( and actually get sleep ) . I am so blessed today ..I hope that wasn't " too much " I hope that helps !  .
Day 7 and it seems my wife could care less. I tried to tell her how I was feeling and she starts talking about a stain on the carpet. You gotta do it for yourself
