-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7r52cw/need_help_helping_my_mom/

my mom is an alcoholic and was clean for about four years until April of last year when she relapsed for the first time we convinced her to get help and she did but not even a month later she relapsed again and the cycle just kept repeating for the past year and now she has relapsed again i have tried everything in my knowledge and power to try and help her each time if anyone has any advice on what to try to do to get her sober again and keep her sober please any help would be much appreciated  
----------immediate responses--------

Have you tried going to any al-anon meetings? I Hera they can be a great support for people in your position. Hope that is helpful I know it's not exactly what you were asking but it could help in general. 
Hey. My mom has been an alcoholic for as long as I can remember (I'm 28) despite two DUIs and surviving stage 4 cancer. For a long time I tried really really hard to convince her to get sober. I tried leaving the house to live with my dad when I was young I tried dumping all the alcohol in the house I could find down the sink I screamed I cried I said the hard things. I went to al-anon. I bought her the AA book. ..Long story short she herself has to make the conscious decision to want to get sober. Nothing else will help. I know that may not be what you want to hear but at some point you have to decide to not stress about the decisions she's making as an adult as long as they are not hurting you or others (and as long as she isn't driving). As an alcoholic myself I know this is true too. Nothing else mattered to me. It's a true addiction...You can maybe ask her what her motivation was to get sober those four years. Ask her how you can help her get back into that mindset. Ask her what she did then that she doesn't do now that you might be able to change...I hope you find answers. I hope your mom learns to make the healthy decision. Best of luck.
It's ultimately her choice.
Keep going to Al-Anon or Al-Ateen remember you didn't cause her drinking can't control her drinking and can't cure her drinking.  I know that is not what you want to hear but it is the truth. Go to a meeting tomorrow and Friday and Saturday meetings will help you focus. 
I like what everyone else has said..Remember too that no one can make the decision to quit drinking other than themselves. I'd be mindful to not make her feel that you are pressuring her in some way to do something regardless of what she decides. All you can really do is be there for her whatever may happen. Stay strong!!
detach yourself with love.  focus on yourself.  ..make sure you have made your amends to her.  make sure you fix any wrongs you have done to her...do not lecture her.  ..just be the example and be patient because likely she will want to quit on her own...everytime you get upset or angry turn to literature.  I challenge you to read this everyday for 12 days in a row...https://addictionfree.com/addiction-blog/dos-and-donts-for-family-members-of-alcoholics/
So sorry you're going through this. It's a scary and painful situation (both of my parents are alcoholics one practicing one sober 32 years). Glad you're participating in Alateen. There are great people in Alanon and Alateen. Reach out. Make friends. 
