-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7rvomp/started_a_relationship_with_a_30m_to_find_out_hes/

So I started dating a 30 y.o. man back in October and I just found out he has an alcohol problem. He was in rehab back in 2016 and everything. I really like him and I feel like I know him and like I get him. I want to figure things out with him and I don't want him to thing I see him badly. He's been sober since I've known him but he says he does worry about relapse. He always says "one day at a time" I just want to know what's the best way to help him. How can I support him and help him keep moving forward? ..TL;DR looking for advice on helping alcoholic loved one
----------immediate responses--------

All you can do is allow him to grow and mature in his sobriety without controlling or manipulating him.
Encourage him to go to his meetings and work the steps.
Al-anon will have the resources and people available to help
Does he go to AA meetings?  "one day at a time" kinda sounds like he does but it don't hurt to ask eh?..One thing to keep in mind is that alcoholism is unlike almost every other malady that can befall a human being.  It is quite possibly self-inflicted although there is data that suggests a biological component is at work and it is self-diagnosed ... and self-resolved.  So it is up to him to address his malady and we do that "one day at a time" :)..Dig this: diabetics people with heart ailments people with fake hips or limbs people after major surgeries and those people who get all bloated up and maybe die from a bee sting: everyone knows they have an issue and nobody assumes they don't know how to deal with it.  Treat this gentleman the same way :)..Oh and do check out al-anon.  They might be beneficial to you although generally they are for people who've been damaged by being in the danger zone of an alcoholic who is still deep in his cups.  Still knowing there are people who are in the same boat as you might make for smoother sailing right?
Definitely check out Alanon. That might be more helpful to him (and you) than going to meetings with him. 
this question gets asked often but normally regarding someone who is actively drinking. Why don't you ask him what would support him ?  
Alanon is a support group for friends and family of alcoholics. These are meetings for YOU! See /r/Alanon. The best thing you could do for him is to go to some Alanon meetings. 
If he is on a solid recovery foundation I would appreciate being treated normally.  My wife benefits from Al-Anon because she loves an alcoholic even though we met after I was sober and she has never seen me drink or drug.
