-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7s7lb6/i_actually_really_enjoy_attending_meetings/

I know that there are a lot of people who see attending meetings as a chore kind of like going to work or going to school but I actually really enjoy the meetings. It's nice to be surrounded with people who have the same problems I have. I enjoy hearing these people's stories and enjoy studying the book of AA and working the steps cuz it makes me feel more enlightened and like I'm growing as a person. It's also nice to be in a place where I don't feel judged for struggling with drugs and alcohol. My family is very judgmental of my addiction and I can't really reach out to them about it cuz of that. I feel like I have a lot in common with the people there and I feel that sense of being part of a community. Anyone else agree? 
----------immediate responses--------

I think a lot of people who enjoy a sober life of sane and happy usefulness would agree. I certainly do. Keep coming back.
Agree 100% would never have believed so when I started.
It was a relief in my first few meetings to know I wasn't alone in my struggle with alcohol abuse.
I enjoy going to meetings MOST of the time.
I definitely agree.  Sometimes I will get sick of a meeting.  Same people same stories etc.  In those case it is important for me to go to a different meeting and not stop going.  
Meetings can be a magical place a place to give back. Carry the message. The fellowship is with you.
Sometimes I complain and drag-ass on the way there but I have never regretted going to a meeting.  Even the "bad" ones can provide a learning/growth opportunity.
Me too and I am so grateful that I enjoy meetings.  I feel badly for those who don't.
I completely changed my opinion of meetings. They are now an integral part of my life. 
i love most meetings i go to.
I like the hugs
Mostly.  There are certainly days I'm burned out or bummed and show up with a crappy attitude (last night being one of them).  I still get at least something from every meeting I go to so I just keep going when I don't feel like it.  Never hurts usually helps.
