-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7srzr6/my_sponsor_called_me_to_tell_me_hed_been_drinking/

So my sponsor and I ended up being pretty good friends after we completed the steps. The last few months we've both been busy. I haven't been going to many meetings but always keep in touch with my sober circle. He stopped going to meetings completely and our communication dropped off quite a bit. But we still texted and talked shit. ..He called me today and we bullshitted a little then he let me know he's been drinking. He struggled with  dry goods  as well and says he's not on those. Says he's drinking responsibly having a good time not missing work or driving drunk.... ..Part of me doesn't care. He's a grown up and can do what he wants. The other part of me feels a little abandoned. He's my dude. Someone I confided in about some crazy shit and who helped guide me through my process. ..I've seen many people relapse in my 19+ months but most of them didn't put in the work or didn't have a role in my sobriety. So I kind of shrugged it off. This one feels different. A few of us had an idea he was drinking again but hearing it from the source is weird. It is causing some thoughts and emotions I didn't see coming. I'm mad then I don't care then I'm like fuck it hat's off to you man! But part of me is also jealous. Like damn he can (so far) drink without impunity so maybe I can. It's a weird spot to be in. ..Have any of you dealt with this? I'm conflicted about talking to any of my sober friends as they are all mutual friends of his and I don't want to put his shit out there. 
----------immediate responses--------

Wow..Are there some people with a lot of time and sponsees that can weigh in on this?.I've never heard someone say that their Sponsor picked up.  I don't know what I would do but I know I'd be really bothered.
My first sponsor drank.  I was about 3 years sober and she had moved away but all I could do think was  holy shit if she didn't have good Sobriety did that screw MY Sobriety up??   I was super hurt and felt super betrayed.  Called my then sponsor up in a panic and she got me calmed down to remember that as long as I do what I know keeps me sober I will stay sober.  My first sponsor obviously didn't. ..Took me a while longer to  hate the disease and not hate the person   cause shit she heard my first 5th step and knew some serious crap about me. ..Very happy to report that I have many more years of sobriety under my belt I still work the steps I still go to meetings I still work with others I still haven't felt the need to pick up a drink.   ..I still hurt for her.  She died of this disease.  
It could be a call for help. He didn't have to tell you but he did. It might be that he is right at at top of the rollercoaster and his subconscious had a glimpse of the crazy plunge about to come. .."If he can drink like a gentleman .. our hats are off to him". ..But maybe there's more here than meets the eye?..Anyway you're in recovery to save yourself first. Please make sure you're on firm ground before trying to save others. .
Job 1 is to get a new sponsor and keep on recovering.  I know many who relapsed (in 14 years of recovery) and have never heard an alcoholic tell me that going back to drinking was a good thing.  I have heard many say things got much worse several die.
Sponsors are alcoholics. They aren't cured. They are people with experience that's it. So he drank. Get a new sponsor. And more importantly don't take his inventory. You need to do what it takes to get sober. Why don't you go to more meetings?
My last sponsor disappeared and is probably drinking again. Now her sponsor is my sponsor. We are all sick people. I absolutely empathize with everything you're feeling. What a great opportunity to get back into regular meetings and taking some action steps with a new sponsor. 
Hasn't happened to me but it happened to a friend of mine in the program when he was only 3 months sober. Rocked him pretty hard. We rallied around him though and gave him another sponsor. He did what he needed to do to stay sober &amp; today 3 years later has told me he's stronger because of that experience.
Last Saturday my sponsor told me he'd relapsed I still feel incredibly let down. But I got a new sponsor and am realizing that I have to keep ahead of my disease and keep doing what got me to 15 months
Sounds like it's working for him. You should go have a beer with him sometime. You can probably control your drinking now that you have proven you can stop for 19 months whenever you want. hell go live a little. you got this!
That would make me nervous too. I'd wonder about the quality and depth of what he passed on to me particularly in regards to the 1st step since his foundation was lacking...Might be worthwhile to go over that one with someone who has a solid understanding.
