-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7t1gne/dont_know_what_to_write_about_for_fourth_step/

I am what you might call a high bottom drunk. Came to AA of my own volition no legal trouble never lost a job or relationships. But I knew all those things were in my future if I kept going...I'm writing my fourth step now and I'm genuinely struggling to think of people I've wronged or am resentful at. Yes there are a few things but nothing really large. ..Anyone else face this? Am I just in denial?
----------immediate responses--------

Writing myself so i enjoy talking about this! ..Before i got to the fourth step i remember thinking i wasn't a very resentful person as well.   I think the thing was i just had never put these things in words on paper in front of me  and once i started doing that they would sometimes just jump up and slap me in the face....I guess the thing i keep in mind is that it doesn't matter how small it was  how little harm came to me or to other people  they're all things that i keep coming back to  keep remembering  and have carried with me for a long time.   Any girl that ever didn't like me back is on there.  Every boss that asked me to do stuff that i felt was unreasonable or stupid is on there.   The time i went nuts at a rec league basketball game when i was 12  scoring 30 points but my parents weren't there to see it  that's on there.   The fact that i always exaggerate numbers when i tell people something (it was really 25 points) that's on there. ...But yeah  it's really tricky getting started  but i found that probably half of my resentments weren't currently on the top of my head when i started writing i started discovering them once i unpacked other threads of bullshit in my life.  I also found it helpful to pray to my higher power to let me look unflinchingly at my past and to remember that nothing counts but honesty and thoroughness. .
Listen to Joe &amp; Charlie they will spell it out for you.  ..https://itunes.apple.com/us/podcast/joe-charlie-big-book-comes/id687141143?mt=2
My fourth step I did way too thoroughly and a lot of the resentments were barking up the wrong tree so to speak and were just things I wrote down to make it seem like I was doing it right because I had no idea what I was doing. ..My current sponsor kept it real simple for the 4th step. Just write down the things that fuck you up when you think about them. Things that you think about before going to bed or things that you feel prevent you from living the way you want to live. Get them on paper and then say them out loud to someone you trust and you'll feel better.
Just do the best you can following the instructions in the book. Nobody does a really great job the first time. But the important part is to take the step then take the next one and the next one--keep moving forward and don't get stuck. You'll get another chance at it...Resentments..Fears..Sex conduct
I would look more at the fears if you are a  high bottom . If you kept your drinking  under wraps  mostly then I would imagine that the fears category would possibly have some more undiscovered areas than you might not initially think of. I was of a similar drinking history no serious legal problems but still definitely alcoholic. I did have resentments but I noticed that my fears tended to involve a lot more of my drinking than resentments. I believe this is because I spent all of my drinking career in denial of my problem and that develops fear at the drop of a hat if you are trying to prevent your problem from spreading. Just my thoughts rigorous honesty!!!!
Find other peoples examples to get you thinking...Lots of people resent:.* the cable company.* police.* work.* their parents.* creditors
You may be surprised to find you are one of the angriest people you know. If you are telling us that you don't think you have any resentments that is possibly because you are the type of person who buries them and if you are you may learn just how many resentments you do have and how that has been affecting you all this time nobody walks around with THAT much hurt and anger and can pretend it doesn't exist - it comes out in your behavior this is not uncommon in AA.
I'm a high-bottom drunk too. Came in at 25 no legal trouble no lost jobs or relationships (well so I thought at the time.) My first sponsor had me do a narrative fourth step -- forget about the forms and the columns and the analysis -- and just write down my life story. Then when we sat down and did the fifth step she helped me identify patterns of resentment and harms I couldn't see for myself. She also helped me see when things were not my fault things I had been carrying guilt and shame about for a long time. ..I don't know if your sponsor would be into this approach but it might be worth asking. Remember there's no one way to work a fourth step. You just have to find your way into it. Another good way is to list all your family members all the significant relationships in your life and brainstorm any resentments you might have. Good luck! Finishing your fourth and fifth steps is a really big deal. 
So write a few things. The person who writes the most resentments isn't doing the best fourth step. Write down what you can it's you inventory not anyone else.
I'm doing mine right now and it's taking me forever. My family takes up most of it and I'm still not done with them. For my first few resentments I forgot about the forth column and I have no room on the paper to add it so I might have to add in other sheets of paper. Basically right now it's a complete mess. I've been working on it for 2 weeks already.
Always strange when I see people say there is no one way to do step 4. I suppose that's true if you are doing something else but the book Alcoholics Anonymous says over and over that it is precisely how the first 100 got sober. The pages on step 4 tell you exactly how to do it. It doesn't say anywhere to do a narrative life story... probably because of you tell a self-centered alcoholic to do that they will write 1000 pages about themselves.. quite literally the opposite of what the 12 steps are all about. .   If you want what AA has to offer which is a happy and usefully whole life without the need to drink alcohol then I would recommend opening the book Alcoholics Anonymous and doing precisely what it says to do. I'd also jump to the 12&amp;12 and read the part on instincts (42-46). Good stuff in there. .   Remember:  rarely have we seen a person fail who has thoroughly followed our path. - that's a promise of sorts. A guarantee.. I'd follow the path (12 steps) thoroughly.. 
I was the same way.  No legal trouble/work or money issues.  However I had medical consequences but I digress.  My list wasn't long but it was thorough.  I did it in more than one sitting because sometimes (at least for me) I had some selective memory.  The more you can dig out the better your chances.  So if your being as honest as you can you truly don't need to worry.  Best of luck!
I wasn't sure if I was done or had enough on my list. My friend gave me this advice...Sometimes we can't see everything from where we are. All we can work on is what's in front of us. The 4th step isn't really a one and done thing it's the start of a new way of living. ..It's more important to keep going then to worry about it. Other stuff will come up then we deal with it. ..For me I found that once I got writing there was more there than I thought. 
Resentments fears sexual inventory and harms.  These Step 4 topics provide ample subject matter for most although I know our experiences vary widely.  Any reason you excluded fears and sexual inventory?  Most of us have some fears and many have less than ideal sexual histories.
