-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7t7q7c/i_like_my_meetings_but_i_need_some_advice/

I won't go too far into it but I got in some legal trouble and now I've been told I have to attend at least two meetings a week to keep my drivers license. I don't mind the meetings and in fact I actually enjoy the stories from some of the old timers. ..Really I just feel weird because while I do have a desire to stop drinking (I've been sober about 4 years now and it's the best thing I could have ever done for myself and everyone around me) I know I don't need to go to the meetings to stay sober and there are people in the rooms who really struggle just to get their 24h. People see me have the chair sign my attendance sheet at the end of every meeting but nobody has  said anything about it or asked me anything so I assume that they see guys like me come in all the time who are court ordered for one reason or another. ..I don't really have a choice because I either go or lose my license but do I just go and put in the time or should I actually share and let people know what's up? I don't want anyone to have any resentments towards me either way I just want to be able to be on good terms with the people in the groups because I'm going to be spending a lot of time there.   
----------immediate responses--------

How did you get sober? That's amazing! Congrats!
My personal opinion is this: if you're an alcoholic please share. If you're not an alcoholic please don't. Our meetings are about alcoholism. If you're not one that's totally ok and there's a different type of group out there for you. A nudge from the judge is a great reason to come into AA but if you're not one us then I suggest you listen and try to learn something about what's happening in here. Ask questions afterwards and before the meetings but you most certainly don't have to justify why you're there. No one ever has in my groups. 
You could always try some controlled drinking if you are not too alcoholic otherwise you are in the right place. Going through the steps of AA is about more than just not drinking but also about becoming a better person and not acting and thinking like an alcoholic. There are dry drunks who are sober and never take care of their alcoholism. You must decide if you are alcoholic. There are many ways to get sober AA is just one. Joining the fellowship of Alcoholics Anonymous means working the steps with a sponsor.  ...The people at the meeting will mostly think that when you are done getting your paper signed then you will probably drink again. I have seen many who get the judge nudge to AA and then go back out and drink as soon as the period required is over. If you keep to yourself and don't share I would guess you are one of those. Sharing is a good thing. 
The only requirement for membership is a desire to stop drinking. Sounds like you've met that requirement...But two things. I knew a guy with 8 years dry who quit drinking on his own. He managed to lost everything without booze because his character defects were still running rampant. After the wife left and the kids wanted nothing to do with him be gave AA a shot at 8 years spber. That's where he learned something that he liked to point out to me. His problem was never alcohol but it was the solution to his problem that he used. When he took the solution away without a new way of living things got worse. When he found this way of life he found happiness. ..The other thing. Read chapter 3 in the big book. It may be worth a bad case of the jitters to see if you're a real alcoholic. It says go try some controlled drinking. Try to have just 2 drinks and then stop abruptly. Read chapter 3 and decide. ..It is COMPLETELY OKAY for you to say at your meeting "I don't know if I belong here." It's even better to go to one of those old timers that you like hearing from and saying "I'm not sure if I belong here. How do I know?"..If you honestly believe you are not alcoholic then just be honest about it. There's no need to hide sitting in the rooms abiut... well.. anything. We are not saints. We didn't end up in AA because we lead perfect lives or were doing well. 
I appreciate that you're able to keep separate the judicial system and what you observe going on in AA. I didn't grasp that the many times I had to drag around a court card while still drinking...I'd suggest hitting the shortest and most enjoyable meetings available to you and just putting in your time to fulfill your penalty. As far as participating it's your decision but I don't see what you might add that could benefit alcoholics.
