-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7tkr4b/my_depressive_relapse/

So I'm newer to AA and I made it almost a month. Back when I used to drink on a regular basis I loved it. It felt good it was pleasurable it relaxed the nerves it brought me out of my shell  and the list goes on. The reason why I knew it was time to quit is because I was spending too much money slowly killing myself and always hungover at work and wasn't on a clear head. The month a stayed sober was pretty easy at first mostly because I was on the pink cloud. Once that slowly started to dissipate is when I foolishly though I can learn to control it and only drink in moderation. The first time I tested the waters I felt pretty depressed as I slowly consumed that first beer. Over the last two weeks I drank moderately on the weekend nights. A couple of times they just made me more depressed the other times where just so so but never was as good as it used to be. Well on Friday night I drank two beers and called it good and decided to go to bed. All I have to say is that I felt depression on a whole new level! I couldn't even fall a sleep because my body was physically antsy and the depression was out of this world! It's like my body physically wanted more but I was in such a dark depressive state I was concerned about my well being! Finally I drank some detox tea until I finally fell asleep...1. Is it common for a relapse to put you in a dark depressive state like it did for me instead of being like old times?..2. I think this means I'm having a hard time admitting to myself the powerless when it comes to alcohol. If anyone has any good advice on the first step can you please share?..Thank you!
----------immediate responses--------

.I think it is just as you describe you are coming to terms with the reality of your situation it is a lot to swallow and if you have been spending a long time heading in the other direction well that makes it very difficult to change...So many obstacles denial of how deep we are in the problem fear of how or if the program will work for us confusion as things we thought were truths turn out to be lies depression at the prospect of a life without alcohol ( the only thing that makes me feel ok)...Coming to meetings and listening to others share helped immensely. Knowing i am not the only one and listening to others fearlessly tell about their thoughts and struggles is uplifting and helped me see that i was in the right place and gave me hope that i could get there too...I read the doctor's opinion with some other AA's in a big book study in someone's home and we spent time on what he says which while  somewhat dated i find it to be perfectly true for me. I saw how the phenomenon of craving affected me and how i was powerless over it i wrote down examples of it from my life. I saw how the obsession with alcohol would affect me when i was not drinking and how i was powerless over that. ..I smiled at the example of someone putting his hand on a hot stove and saying "it won't burn me THIS time" and saw my insanity of doing the same thing over and over and expecting different results...I identified with the book and the sharing at meetings and i carefully let myself be carried by these people they picked me up at every meeting i went to I let them get to know me and we laughed and shared. They/god working through them carried me along towards sobriety but i had to let go just a little bit at every meeting to enable them to do that and that was very difficult for me i was FULL of fear...Don't try and do this all by yourself to the degree that you can let others help you. It is great that you are reaching out on here continue that path and try it at a meeting and perhaps ask someone who seems smart and friendly to talk you will likely have a "feeling" about them follow that feeling that is your higher power trying to guide you..
Yes it is common for drinking to be different now. It'll never be like old times.  .  .The amount of "convincing" that I required was...cartoonish! It almost killed me many times. After seven years of in-and-out rehab and AA and even the BIG hospital it was that THIRD time at the detox place when I was ready to take certain steps...  .  .It sounds like you're on the right track and facing the right direction. Keep at it!
Aa ruins your drinking 
There is nothing more depressing than having a belly full of beer and a head full of AA.
