-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7wijif/why_is_it_important_to_call_people/

I'm in early recovery and am struggling hard. Looping thoughts of guilt are freezing me with anxiety. ..Anyway my sponsor always tells me to call more people. ..Obviously I don't want to do this as I feel I have nothing to say other than negative things and it feels like a huge task to call people while I can barely do routine things like make some cereal for myself. ..But I'm sure there's a reason why this is good for my recovery but I'd just like to know why.
----------immediate responses--------

Calling people helps you connect to others in recovery. We're all sick and it's helpful to hear from people that are new in the program it reminds us of what it was like when we started. It doesn't have to be a long conversation some people are more talkative than others but even just introducing yourself and letting that person know how you're doing is a good start. We all want to help each other and calling someone is a good way to  break the ice  as some people are hesitant to offer help when it might be needed so taking the initiative yourself puts the ball in their court so to speak.
Calling people generally helps them more than it helps even you so don't ever hesitate even if you think all you have to say is negative things...Calling people in general is good to help you connect (as mentioned) reach out and not keep stuff bottled up in yourself.  When you're talking to people anyway everything little bit of everything is likely to come out in some conversation or another so that's great ... and the more people you talk to and the more perspectives you get the better your chances of finding solutions or other ways of thinking that work for you...And though you didn't ask it's related so I'll throw it out there - the importance of calling a single person regularly - for me it was my sponsor and it was every day for my first year and a half - is they get to know you better than you even do ... they can notice things talking to you at that frequency that you do not notice because you're living with yourself every second of every day.  For me somewhere around 6 months or so I couldn't connect with my sponsor for a few days ... maybe 3 or 4 ... but I left him a message every one of those days.  On the 4th day he called me back which alone was odd but it was also at an odd time ... I thought something was maybe wrong with *him* ... he started by asking me if everything was ok with *me* ... I said yes ... he said "Are you sure?" ... I paused and thought and again said yes though a little less sure this time ... then he explained that in my messages over the past couple days I had sounded a little 'off' ... so I started to talk about my last few days ... what I had been up to what was going on etc. ... I glazed over one thing that I thought nothing of and he went "Wait a minute ... let's circle back to that one ..."..After a bit more digging we uncovered what my aftercare counselor said easily could have been the start of a relapse had we not nipped it in the bud.  I don't remember what it was now ... probably some resentment or something ... what it was isn't important - what is is that I learned the importance of keeping in regular communication with people in the program!  :)
I've always thought it had to do with the whole 'getting out of self' thing which btw really does work!
I think it's important to call people if you have something to say to them or are feeling shakey. I got sober in a group that attended the evening meeting and went to coffee after where we had the opportunity to talk in private away from the group. F2f 2-way communication...Cell phones make it easier to touch base now but I don't require sponsees to waste their time or mine with a forced and meaningless daily call. I'm available if something comes up but awkward minutes spent on the line with me every day at 6:10 sharp isn't a sufficient answer. Fortunately we have a book that contains one which works really well.
The short answer is that when you reach out it is dual purpose. Not only are you helping the person you call strengthening your ties in the fellowship it also helps you forget about whatever your obsessing/ worrying over because you are listening to someone else if only for a few minutes...Hope this helps. Love and Light     
I'll tell you why. Because when I entered AA I got a sponsor worked the steps did service and my life got great. I had about four years of sobriety. Then my life got bad I got bad health bad family circumstances and then one day I was frustrated irritated and discontent. I went to the store and picked up a drink and it. Was out drinking for two years. Now I couldn't help but think that had I practicing calling other AA members then I wouldn't have had to pick up that drink. People make suggestions for a reason but I thought I was the exception and didn't need to do that. Now I'm back and making my phone calls daily. They're like 5-10 minute phone calls and make all the difference.
The last call I got was a suicide threat..Learn to pick up the phone. .Don't be alone..We can get through it together.
Desentizaton of sharing stuff do it often and when something bad happens that you need to actually divulge you gonna do it realmeasily 
 you gotta get uncomfortable to get better  is the reasoning behind this but i'm new too and completely understand your reluctance to call...i get so many lists of numbers and don't want to call any of them. just remember that alienation is a huge part of addiction and building a network adds light to the darkness when you need support or even when you need to go out and learn to have fun without getting fucked up. ..tonight i came back from the diner for the first time with my sponsor and a bunch of other people. was a little different than what i'm used to but i actually felt a part of something. being welcome feels good. a lot of them genuinely care and also they get to help themselves by helping you too. 
I'm 50 years old. When I was in high school and up through my thirties everybody called people occasionally because that was the only way to set things up socially or for task oriented stuff...I have friends in their twenties that seldom do voice for anything. If they are going to have voice contact they clear it first by text. I'm not going to contradict anyone's sponsor on anything because they no you and your program. ..The calling people is about stopping isolation and increasing connections. I understand people who grew up with sms things operate a little differently. I text my young friends and ask if they are up for a call. Fellow pre-geriatrics I just call cause we are use to calls with out pre-text arrangements. The texting ahead to call likely seems silly to some people but it enables not feeling like I'm in interrupting something which makes me feel more OK with calling.
Building new habits. If I'm in the habit of calling someone in AA once a day when the shit hits the fan I'm already in the habit of calling someone. It's not another challenge to overcome...If I'm not in the habit it's much harder to pick up the phone...That's not the only reason but its' a good one. 
Okay thanks mate. I guess I'm just not used to calling people and feel embarrassed. ..And at the moment I'm frozen with anxiety and feel I have nothing to say other than  I'm feeling terrible. 
I've been going for an year and now I have long stretches where I don't think about drinking. ..But then there was one day about 2 mths back where I was bodily and spritually fatigued. ..That old voice started talking to me - started to tell me that I could have a glass or two of wine and it would be OK. I earned it. I had been a good boy. I had the habit beat - under control. I was the master. Surely I could drink just a little and stop? Afterall drinking wine just a glass or two isn't the same as drinking other alcohol right? ... And so on .. ..This was in the afternoon and I was planning for the evening where I was to meet someone who would be drinking. I knew myself by this point. I knew that in the state I was in I did not have any defense against that craving and cunning voice...I did what I was taught to do. ..I reached out to other drunks. They spoke with me. That act was enough to drive away the influence of that voice. ..That night I did meet my friend who drank wine. I did not and I was in control. ..For a long time I couldn't open up and talk to other drunks. However this is why I have to keep that line open and strong. ..Cos I never know when I will need it. It's my helpline. 
I've always told my sponsees not to feel bad about calling. Putting your number on a phone list at a meeting isn't mandatory. If someone didn't want to receive a call they wouldn't put their number on the list. Making the calls help you but also help the person answering the phone. It's win-win. 
I like that line i may steal it is it from a song?.&gt;Looping thoughts of guilt are freezing me with anxiety..I had the same thing still do to some extent thoughts that will not go away and make me unhappy and take away my usefulness. We cannot shut these off by ourselves so we talk to another human being and after a little bit of conversation we find that the loop has been broken. It will start up again as soon as we think about those things but there is a great relief that comes from knowing that there is a way to turn it off. And if you talked with someone about whatever is going around in your brain quite often you reduce it's strength you get someone else's ideas on it not the same thoughts going around and around it helps in so many ways to talk about it...I don't want to bother anyone......you most likely will be helping the person you talk to if they have some sobriety and have been through what you have been through and have found a solution they will be delighted to try and share that it makes them feel better if they can try and help someone else through the shit they went through also it helps them stay sober. ..Granted if you are always calling the same person and they have given you a solution for your problem countless times and you always call and complain about the very same problem then you are sliding into becoming annoying but i think you can see that and you will try your best not to go there.
Okay try a conversation on here it's a conversation just being typed...So......you say you have guilt what did you do that you feel guilty about? you don't even have to be specific...I stole I hurt someone I neglected things I was dishonest.
It will build muscle memory...At the times when you are down and at your lowest you will instinctively reach for the phone instead of a drink...This is why some sponsors tell you to call them everyday not for an egotistical purpose  but so you get so comfortable calling them that it becomes second nature. Same goes for the people in the fellowship.
Because there are others that have been there and understand.
My disease is a disease of isolation.  Reaching out connects me with others and gives me a chance to help them and vice versa.
