-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7xlyqb/is_it_typical_to_be_jealous_of_those_who_have_had/

I don't like writing this but it's something I've been thinking about...So sitting in a meeting I'm hearing from all these people who had such terrible experiences.  Like homeless no job drunk for months on end everyone writes them off.  I never had that.  I'm a functioning alcoholic (now just 2 days sober) -- although less functioning as time goes on...There is a bit of jealousy for those who were that low.  I have a good job but I'm struggling.  Until recently I've always been successful.  I feel like I'm expected to continue to be successful despite my struggles.  There must be something freeing about knowing you had thrown your entire life away and expectations for you are very low.  Like just staying sober is enough to make people proud of you.  I wish just staying sober was all I had to worry about...EDIT:  Just for the record I realize this is diseased thinking and that getting worse would make things worse.  I have no actual desire to hit any bottom lower than I've already hit.  I just had to get this off my chest.
----------immediate responses--------

Why would you want a worse experience. Isn't yours worse enough. My story is the worst I ever heard cuz it happened to me. Just because I was never homeless doesn't mean I didn't suffer an emotional bottom.
I understand what you're saying but it's a poisoned chalice. You wake up with nothing on your agenda other than to get drunk. Your mission for each day is to scrape scrounge or beg enough money to make that possible. You go to sleep with nothing. You wake up with nothing. Every day is blissfully simple and diabolically imprisoning. ..There's something almost ascetic and pure about this life. It's a life devoted to one thing. I knew a guy who said he'd turn down a night inside sober over a night in a shed with some booze. He would sit in the dark freezing cold alone thinking "this is the life: booze space peace and quiet". ..It feels like freedom. You think it's freedom. It's anything but. 
Sounds like you're jealous of the attention you think they are getting. Like it's some sort of competition and they have racked up more 'hard knocks' points...For me I do think that a lot and it's because I crave attention from other people. It's another addiction because I have an empty hole inside me since I grew up with a screwed up loveless/supportless family. ..At the same time I also have a 'zero sum game's mindset where I should be the only 'winner'. It's narcissistic or insecure - I'm not sure. Maybe even sociopathic. ..But really it's stupid. What 'prize' am I chasing in the rooms? Only my recovery right? ..If I'm focussing on other things than my recovery - like attention others are getting - it means I've lost track of my recovery ... 
Is 'jealous' the right word?  Do you mean 'less than'?   Everyone is different but I'm sure you drank enough to earn a seat in an AA meeting.  'Compare and despair' we say.  It's true. 
Hey friend... We don't have to lose everything to decide that enough is enough.  I may not have lost my job family house car etc.  But I came damn close.  What I did lose was my dignity and self respect. I was filled with depression anxiety and self loathing nearly at all times.  It hasn't been easy but thanks to quitting drinking and the fellowship of AA nearly every aspect of my life has improved.  Life is pretty good on the other side... even though I've gone through some SHIT as a sober person.  I'm okay and that's a hell of a lot better than how I used to be...There are high bottom drunks and low bottom drunks.  All of us are welcome members of Alcoholics Anonymous.  If you were given the choice between the two wouldn't you rather step off the elevator to the bottom before it crashes into the ground.
Are you tired of drinking? Are the consequences you've suffered enough? If yes you are just like us. If not try some more controlled drinking. Maybe it wasn't that bad?..It sounds like you want to quit and you know it was bad. So there's really no need to listen to other stories and say "that's worse". Even when I hear a story that sounds bad or think might be an extreme story i just think of it as a "not yet".
It sounds like your ego is subtly trying to sabotage your sobriety. By sickly admiring or feeling jealous towards those who have had it worse than you you might be trying to convince yourself that you're not alcoholic. If you place more importance on people who have had worse experiences your subconscious might be trying to say  Wow those poor folks they are the real alcoholics not me!  I know you probably don't intend to do that but that is the nature of this disease (Cunning baffling powerful) It truly manifests itself in the parts of our mind that are hard to access. I wouldn't worry too much if you are serious about sobriety this is just one of the obstacles to overcome. I would suggest reading  Step One  in the  Twelve Steps and Twelve Traditions  book. It has a lot of good to say about the severity of alcoholism and how it shouldn't matter how much or little we drank.
Common problem - alcohol ..Common solution - steps ..Homeless prison or divorce can result as the consequence of many things other than drinking. You should be focusing on the solution not the consequences of the drinking. ..If you are attending a meeting were people are talking about the consequences of their drinking you can always ask them to share about the solution or find a meeting where people talk about the solution (steps).
It's typical to have fucked up thinking when you first get sober. Dunno if that answered your question...On another note human beings are excited by stories of situations of extreme stress which is why prison movies and war movies are always popular.
I remember a lady in a meeting telling the group she had sex for drugs while her kids were outside the apartment eating out the trash and I was like  Oh shit I thought I was messed up  not really jealous but she got a lot of recognition and I wanted that too. Getting sober ain't like getting skinny. You can lose 50 pounds...walk into a room and everyone says  wow! You look amazing.   That doesn't work with booze. I've been sober 2 years and people still tip toe around me. Idk just some perspective. 
Rock bottom is Myth. Your struggling with the exact same thing they are. Just different manifestations. No difference between you and them alcohol doesn't discriminate 
I have experienced something a bit similar. I dont find myself jealous of those people but I do find myself sometimes feeling like I haven't earned my place in the program. I am blessed to have so many people who care about me in my life that my progression was stopped before I had to lose EVERYTHING...I do realize with talking to other folks in the program that it's a bit normal to have these thoughts at first but it is truly a blessing for me or it seems you as well that we didn't have to lose so much and suffer so long...Hang in there OP. And keep coming :)
From what I understand. Every recovering alcoholic has to hit their own personal bottom before truly starting recovery. I have not hit the same bottoms or as many bottoms as other. I pray I don't.
I always thought I had no right to be at meetings or rehab. I knew I was an alcoholic but I came from a privileged background no history of abuse did very well in school lots of extra-curriculars... but I suffer from depression and I guess booze was my way of self medicating even though I had everything I could want at this stage of my life. .There was a guy in my group. Most tragic story I ever heard. Hooked on everything you can imagine at some point. Physical abuse neglect sexual abuse alcoholic parents lived on the streets and joined a gang. Pretty sure he's killed people. Other family murdered. Horrific. .I was talking about how I wanted to end it all and I will never ever forget when he said  I know how you feel. .Someone who went through unthinkable horrors in his life felt like we were in the same boat. Maybe not the same as what you felt but maybe it'll help. I'm getting emotional just remembering it. 
It's pretty common of the alcoholic thinking in early recovery I think. I remember hearing a young lady share that she remembered wishing she had been raped and abused to match the experiences other women in her group had gone through. It's twisted but it's part of the mindset of our addiction - we want what everyone else had we compare outwardly to everyone else etc...It's good to realize at this early stage that it's the disease that makes you think this way.
For me no. Im still waiting to here what gonna happen with my dui and am lucky I have family members who reached out their hands to pull me out the dark even while I fight to go back in
I'd say it's a normal human emotion. Some of us are lucky enough to get it straight before it all falls apart some aren't. Everyone takes their own journey. ..That being said you sound like me: .High stress work environment (possibly sales?).Home life to keep together.Image to portray.Gotta keep food on the table for more than just yourself. ..I guess anything right? In any case no I absolutely understand the jealous feeling. 
I used to think like that a lot when I first got sober.  ..I even used the term "functioning alcoholic" as if I was not as bad as everyone else in the room...With a little bit of time and distance from booze I've realized that I really wasn't "functioning" all that well.  Also through the steps I've had an oppurtunity to examine the effects that my actions had on others and it really wasn't as innocuous as I once positioned it in my memory.  ..Bottom line when I first came in I was too sick to actually recognize how sick I had become.  It wasn't until I actually experienced some form of recovery that I realize how twisted my "functional alcoholic" behavior had been...On a side note...  wow.  Thank you for bringing up this topic.  I had been struggling this past week with reconciling something from my past that came up during a recent amends.  Answering your question really helped me square some things away.  
Yeah I'm right there with you. I think mine isn't so much about the responsibility thing. My heros growing up we're always drunks and addicts and people who hit low lows. I remember seeing a guy on a t.v show as a kid and he was a recovering addict who burnt his life down and was building it back through recovery. I remember I wanted to be like him that's what I wanted. Wtf kinda thinking is that? ..I'm 13 days sober and I have all kinds of wierd thinking about what your describing. Alot of confusion and depression etc. So I understand. Although I did alot of that low Rock bottom kinda stuff when I was young the past 15 or so years of my drinking has been highly functioning I guess. Jobmoneydecent father etc. That has been what has been so hard for me accepting and admitting to being an alcoholic. ..I have a sneaking suspicion that my life hasn't really been as good as I've thought it was. I know I've tried to quit countless times and can't. I've stumbled to bed at 4 am thinking " I can't go on like this." I have fat on my liver and I know my drinking has been getting worse. I also know I don't really want to lose everything I have or die cause that would suck... So I keep going to meetings and I don't listen to my shitty thinking. I've told myself I'm doing this and things will keep getting clearer and my thinking healthier. I'm there with you. I will just keep showing up and talking about my drinking.
Noticed you haven't posted for a few days.  Hope you're well?  
Can you turn your own experience into something meaningful for you? For some reason in my first few days I imagined myself talking to a group of people about my recovery. That went away though. This could also go away for you. ..As a person with a tendency for jealousy what does jealousy give you? What is it you're looking for - the attention from others? On your own individual time do you still wish you had more dire experiences? Does success scare or intimidate you or give you negative feelings? Do you feel like your experience as an addict doesn't give you permission to have success? ..If this really bothers you write about it. You might get somewhere. It's crazy how a month of writing (on and off but most days) and the crazy dreams I've had unraveled some of the cause of a few years of heavy drinking for me personally. ..Just realize this feeling and mentality will pass. Your brain is learning to function without an additional substance to change its' mind and make itself feel better. Maybe for some reason you have a tendency towards jealousy and it's coming up in this form. Meditation helps with these things as well as mindfulness. Sitting and observing these thoughts when you're alone will help you realize new things when you might have these sensations/feelings/thoughts come up while listening to other people's experiences before and during recovery. 
