-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7y22oy/can_someone_talk_to_me/

I'm struggling with addiction. Going thru my apartment complex trying to fight anyone. I saw a guy recording me on his phone. What the fuck am I supposed to do? I can't stop drinking. Its the only thing that stops racing thoughts. I think about everything that I've ever done that's embarrassing all the time. I've been kicked out of multiple therapy offices for being honest. I'm the kind of person that hands my last dollar to homeless but I cant seem to help myself. Therapists say they are enabling me by talking to me so I'm worried about the one I'm supposed to see. When you have a therapist you are literally paying someone to stick by you and they won't even do it. I don't know how I can trust someone and get the help I need. I'm an atheist so I don't want to go to AA
----------immediate responses--------

AA isn't about 'god'. It's about anything you choose as a 'higher power'. The group a watermelon or an inspirational quote. Doesn't matter. Get to a meeting and give yourself a chance.
Don't fight people. You'll regret that too. Being sober helps create distance between your future and embarrassments of the past. They will get further and further away as time goes on. You need to take back the control and create calm for a while. ..The first couple of weeks are hard but it gets easier fast. You need to be selfish by saying no to people who want you to drink with them. Put a count widget on your smartphone if you can. That way you're constantly reminded how many days you've got under your belt. Take pride in it and yourself. It gets better. 
I have a feeling that you weren't kicked out of therapy for "honesty". That being said the best therapists I've had didn't coddle me and told the hard truth along with advice on how to change...Now how to change? Asking for help is a great first step because you'll most likey need it. Go to your nearest a.a. meeting and before and during the meeting tell them that you have a problem drinking and want help stopping. The folks there will be so happy to help you start your new life...I'm just some dude on the internet but this is the advice I took and it saved my life.
Have you considered going to a detox? I know there is some stigma but the benefit is that you will be prevented physically from being able to drink. A lot of times getting more than a day clean off alcohol is very difficult because our bodies have become dependent on drinking. Obviously this involves physically detoxing which sometimes includes temporary side effects but if you're serious about your issue you might look into it. Sometimes A.A. by itself is not enough to help someone that is currently drinking and there needs to be more of a medically based barrier in between you and the next drink. Just a thought though!
Sometimes I'll get in a really negative headspace and want to pick a fight w anyone around too. I get a heat all over my body my fists and jaw clench so tight that it feels like the only thing that will provide any relief is a drink or a punch...IT WON'T. ..Maybe you win the fight but it's a really shitty way to handle life and it's going to get you arrested beat up or killed. Try taking some deep breaths and just sitting quietly w your thoughts. It's going to be overwhelming at first but just breathe and remember that you control your thoughts. They don't control you. ..AA talks about God but it's not necessarily religious. Give it a chance. You owe it to yourself. .Good luck friend. I'm rooting for you. 
I'm an atheist w 21 years sober in aa. Stop making fucking excuses and start going to meetings. At least that's what I told myself 21 years ago and it worked.
AA doesn't require you to believe in God. In fact atheists recover quite frequently. AA has a dedicated chapter 'to agnostics'. It covers the program in relation to the agnostic or atheist. ..I can tell you that AA has performed a miracle in my life. It's the only place that has ever accepted me and shown me the love I needed to change my life. ..I'm not gonna tell you it's easy but it is very simple. Go to a meeting and tell them how you feel. Be honest. Be open minded. ..It took me 17 years to get sobreity and after 6 months drug and alcohol free I am given new blessings one day at a time...If no one has told you they love you today; just know that I do. You will be in my thoughts and prayers. ..Chris K 
I am an atheist at least I thought so anyway. Now I don't even know or care what that term even means. I went to AA a broken man with no hope. I was having nightmares about losing my wife and family due to my drinking and self centeredness. .Now today just this morning in fact the realization hit me I get to spend time with my wife because its the weekend. Its not that I have to spend time with my wife or I should spend time with my wife It is I GET to spend time with my wife. This is just the latest of many many wonderful realizations I have had since I decided to go to a meeting and not worry about if there is a God. I have read and heard over and over something to the effect that either God is or He isn't. Well today in my life He is. And today in my life I am so unbelievably grateful that he is. Don't think about it just do it. Go to a meeting and listen and then go to another and another. Rinse lather repeat. Just do it. It is working for me.
Sorry but you won't be the first atheist in AA.  ..But you CAN be the next one.  ..It sounds like you're having trouble finding people that understand you. Try out a meeting and if it doesn't work well at least you tried. I guarantee that you're going to meet some fucked-up alcoholics that managed to un-fuck themselves and isn't that what you're trying to do?
I couldn't stop drinking or drugging by my own willpower. I might of made it 20 days once... AA was what finally got me clean and sober. And so much more. What do you have to lose?
Very strong agnostic here.  AA is not a religious outfit. It is a group of people who want to help each other to get sober and stay sober. While based on spiritual ideals I know god people Buddhists Muslims agnostics and atheists. Once your mind is set on sobriety the god aspect of AA seems more palatable. ..TBH I have shut down in a few meetings where god is the center but because I have learned to set aside the preconceived ideas I had I have gotten a lot of good tools out of even god meetings. ..Look up the set aside prayer. Read it and learn it even if you don't want to pray it. ..Best of luck to you. 
Hey! Made a day and a half and sorry to disappoint you all but I'm starting
