-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7ypp1r/relapsed_just_need_someone_to_listen/

Hey all. Hope everyone is hanging in. I'll make this short because I know you all know the story. Had about 10 months. Stopped going to meetings calling my sponsor and just really discouraged with my recovery. So my solution (cause that always gets great results) was to find a girl that was as sick as I am and try to run away from me. Well she cheated on me. All hell broke loose.  And I have been on a full on bender for four months. I cannot get any traction. Part of me wants to be sober and part of me is just like fuck it all. .I really don't want to die. I hate this fucking disease. How do I get back on track. Praying to my HP everyday. Going and sharing at meetings. I don't know what to do anymore.
----------immediate responses--------

Sucks Jacob.So you know the things you stopped doing that aided in your relapse like calling your sponsor and going to meetings?  Well.....Do them.Its really that easy.Get to a meeting and say you f'd up.We so want to see you.Good luck.  
Hugs to you.  Keep going to meetings and talking to people.  ..Just put the plug in the jug for 1 hour.  Then next hour make that same decision again   ..Prayers to you.  
One of the most important things we do for each other in recovery is bear witness to others. So I want you to know that I hear you and I get it. I truly understand what you're going through. I won't tell you what you need to do. I know that's not what you asked for. But I will tell you that I think you already know all the things you need to do. 
Call and talk with a sober member before you drink if you don't want to drink. If you would rather drink instead of making the call why waste your evenings in meetings?
I'm very sorry to hear that and it sounds like you've made a start by getting to some meetings just remember to share what you're going through even when it's difficult . The newcomer is the most important person in the meetings. Make sure that you introduce yourself as new..One thing that helped me when I was new was the  Living Clean  booklet. It helped because the Big Book was over my head at the time and I was struggling at grasping the whole notion of sobriety. It's mostly practical suggestions for moving forward a day at a time things like eating right socializing etc. It's all common sense but those things usually fall by the wayside when we are coming out of our disease. Good luck!
Just jump back up on the horse you'll feel happier making the harder decision and will be better for it once you string some days together. I don't believe in God but I'm praying to my HP for you! I hope you find peace my friend (:
&gt; Stopped going to meetings..The universal commonality of those who relapse. ..&gt; Praying to my HP everyday. Going and sharing at meetings. I don't know what to do anymore...You're doing it. Find a sponsor (or reconnect with your old one) and take the steps so you won't have to do this again.
This sounds like the perfect opportunity to see what amazing things will happen when you work the steps with a sponsor. Best of luck to you!
Thanks for sharing. I'm surprised no one's mentioned the steps yet. Did you work them during your 10 months? I'd imagine you did if you had a sponsor? Get going on those again man! Welcome back!
