-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7yruls/i_will_start_tomorrow/

I've struggled for 5 years now trying to stop. I could go a week or two once a month then I would be right back into it. I have never been to an AA meeting. I keep thinking that I can do this on my own. I decided to stop again yesterday. today is day two and I am telling myself "I can try again tomorrow get some wine right now". ..I saw this group and I'm wondering if someone can just tell me where to start? I have been fighting with myself to just grab my keys and run to the liquor store right now the snow storm here is helping because I don't want to go out. ..I am aware on how dependent I am and just can't shake it. I rely on it to relax but that feeling to wake up with out a hangover is so nice. 
----------immediate responses--------

Five years battling and no victory?  Any general would say it's time to surrender.  Go to a meeting man.  They will welcome you as a brother.  As surrenders go it's pretty sweet.
What works for me is tea. It could be any beverage you like but just having something to drink at hand really helps me. When I'm thinking about a drink I just make a cup of iced tea and it really helps the oral fixation/craving. The relaxation should come in time when the physical habit is changed at least that's how it has been for me.
Btw I'm assuming you're a girl now that I read your name.  Same advice though 
I couldn't stay stopped either though I stopped often each year for the last 9 years I drank. When I did all the AA stuff on offer I stopped for good and have stayed comfortable doing it. Night and day difference between toughing it out painfully and temporarily on my own.
If you are female may I suggest (not required) to try a women's meeting. And vice versa if you are a male. ..Also depending on what you're interests are there are meetings with like minded people that you may be more comfortable in. For example in Houston I go to a meeting in an area where there are a lot of artists open minded people and even frequent a gay owned club. I find that I feel more comfortable at these places. ..If you're from a small town or you can't find a meeting and you are female seek out a woman that shared something and made you feel comfortable. After the meeting let her know your name and that you are new here. ..Bring a couple of dollar bills as it will help when they pass the basket around to alleviate any anxiety about now throwing in a couple of bucks. ..If you get called on and you are nervous say  hi my name is  x  I'm just listening thank you. ..Some groups pass out chips with a number on them. When they call your number same thing.  You don't have to share. ..Here is a link to some online speaker tapes. These were recorded at various places around the world. They are very helpful and in your case may provide comfort. We are proud of you for your honesty. It's not easy being vulnerable. However you just did your step one. :) ..https://www.youtube.com/user/OdomtologyBooks....[online place to find meeting ](http://aa-intergroup.org/) 
I've heard that shit before myself.  Always fucking TOMORROW....You might not be quite sober but you can do SOMETHING sober!!! I believe in you!!!
The first day I went to AA my friend told me if I was too uncomfortable we could go tomorrow. And I told her  If I don't go today I never will.  ..Google AA meetings and go to the soonest and closest one. Let at least one person know it's your first meeting. ..If you don't go today it may be another 5 years gone.
Call your local AA hotline.  They'll give you good advice and tell you where to go for a meeting. That's how I did it and I'm telling you I could NOT have done this without AA and the fellowship of being with people who understand this disease and who've suffered as I have.  That's the only way I can stay sober. Me alone with me is a disaster. .Get out of your own way and make that call or go online.  You won't regret it if you do. .Life is so good sober. .Hard at first but sooooooo worth it. .Good luck. 
If only will power alone was enough to quit drinking; it wasn't for me. AA saved my life.  After committing to a lifetime of drinking committing to one AA meeting isn't too big of a sacrifice. ..Here a good app for finding meetings: .https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/meeting-guide/id1042822181?mt=8.
Did you get to a meeting last night? As you can tell lots of strangers here who were in your spot and are sober/happy today. They're willing to help. All u need to do is show up!
