-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7ysiwk/newcomer_experience/

In many ways newcomers have it pretty good. My area has something like 500 meetings a week within 20 miles.  I can find any meeting online and i have the option of these subreddits youtube etc... like i said a lot of information and access...I have a little over 4 years of sobriety and on a whim i decided to hit a meeting out of town that was Obeg (Open Beginner.) ..Upon entering there was only about 6 men 40 years and younger. Two of the attendees had ankle monitors one early 20 something year old was self-admittingly struggling and the rest were relatively silent...From the very start there was no formal structured introduction the "chair" just started talking about the need for faith belief and love (all fine) after about 10 mins of that one of the ankle monitor guy rambled for 10 mins the chair in turn commented on his share ankle guy talked again for another 10 mins...At this point im kind of loosing my sanity then the new guy opens up and shares hes struggling...The same 2 guys that have been speaking the whole time did it again but this time lecturing the new guy what he needs to do one of them was even speaking about Jesus...I was trying to be polite but was kind of looking at the ground in a vain attempt to not encourage these ramblings and then one of them in the middle of their cross talk of the new guy pointed at me and said "you cant just come to meetings look down and not say anything theres no way you can get sober!."..At that point i got up walked over put a dollar in the basket because i did grab a coffee and walked out...If i was brand new and that was my first experience i would have went back out maybe never have come back...Still wondering if i should have spoke up it wasn't my regular meeting and each is autonomous but wow...Something i had to vent about....
----------immediate responses--------

Sorry to hear that. It sounds like this meeting you were at was mostly newcomers or maybe people that aren't legitimately in A.A. I've had similar experiences where a meeting deteriorates into awkward silence. It's usually because there is crosstalking and people aren't able to relate their experience and understanding of the A.A. program. Maybe this is because they haven't been in the program long enough or maybe they don't have the desire to work a program. It's too bad because most everyone at a meeting needs the help. Maybe you should revisit this meeting in a few weeks and try to talk to the secretary about your experience  but maybe not haha.
All meetings I go to are very well run and respectful. The chair starts with the protocols (welcome preamble anonimity statement etc)and then introduces a topic or 3 and step 1 is always on the table. If someine rambles on or goes off on a tangent the chair will usually just politely move it along. I go to 2 speaker meetings and 3 discussions all different crowds but all super respectful.
The meeting seemed very loosely run with no structure filled with inexperienced members.
Thanks for posting.   A message that I need to get to some newcomer meetings.  I avoided newcomer meetings in early days as they were big noisy and all the newcomers were way more articulate than me.  I was a mess and just went to regular meetings. 
I've been to some terrible meetings. Each meeting is self governed autonomous except in matters that affect AA as a whole. In order to reform a meeting I think is errant I'd have to become a regular and attend business meetings. I do worry about the effects of terrible meetings on newcomers but I think I'd lose my sobriety and sanity if I let it become my mission to reform shitty meetings...By the way there are meetings that aren't my style and then there are bad meetings. Chairmen saying you need Jesus to get sober is an example of a bad meeting not because I'm anti-Jesus but because healthy AA doesn't tell anyone they have to have a specific higher power. ..I've seen some egregious things including chairmen who comment on everything said right after people speak often confrontational and belittling...I don't know maybe on some things I should have written a letter to the Central Office/District Committee about what I've observed at particular bad meetings. I've never seen a pamphlet about what to do about terrible meetings. 
