-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7zdk9o/5_unexpected_things_i_experienced_from_my_first/

1. I was almost always the only girl in a room full of around 10~15 guys for the first three meetings. And then two girls showed up in my next meeting...2. I was 20 years old at that time so I pretty much went in expecting to be the youngest one there and I was but I was still surprised to see quite a lot of young people (mid 20s ~ early 30s). ..3. In all honesty the first time I went I simply went half out of curiosity and half because my therapist had suggested that I "check to see what it's like." I wasn't even determined to get sober at that time. I had been around 10 hours sober when I walked in so I was shocked to see that almost everyone in the room had all been at least a year or more sober which is why I never had the guts to speak up. I always just listened to other people speak wondering why they still felt the need to come to these meetings...4. Three guys hit on me the first and second time I went. It was very hard to reject them because of the way they approached me. It was like "hey so how long you been sober for? let me have your number so we can help each other out." Not in a "let me be your sponsor" kind of way but in a very creepy way but also not the kind of thing you can respond with "I have a boyfriend" to. This was one of the main reasons I stopped going. Later I met this great girl who became my sponsor for a short while and she told me that in these meetings it's usually better for girls to stick with girls and for guys to do so with guys. ..5. Not a single person talked about the struggles of being sober. I think it has to do with what I said in #3 about how long they all had been sober for. It was always about how much their lives have improved since they quit drinking and as someone who couldn't even imagine being sober for a day I just could not relate at all and didn't feel like I belonged there. ..Anyways I'm not in AA anymore. I'm still an alcoholic but not as bad as I was before. I just thought it'd be interesting to share. 
----------immediate responses--------

I'm sorry that those guys hit on you.  AA is not the meetings it's the program contained in the Big book.  If you want to stop drinking you can always give it another try.  Good luck thanks for sharing. 
AA varies by location if you are ever again interested try a literature based meeting young peoples meetig or a women's meeting...Men and women in AA CA and NA occasionally do things in poor taste but that behavior is addressed in most healthy meetings...Hope you are doing well best of luck... 
Unfortunately there are some AA meetings where 13th stepping is the rule rather than the exception. Fortunately in most areas there are many AA meetings and it helps to meeting-shop til you find the right fit for you. When  you're ready that is. Obviously you're not ready yet. Good luck.
Unfortunately this predatory behavior seems to be pretty common. I say that their ego is more important to them than your life. I either turn to 'bitch' mode and look them in the eye with an emphatic 'NO' or I'll just tell them to talk to my sponsor. ..I've struggled with alcoholism and have been in and out of AA for ten years. I've even say through meetings a few seats away from the person who drugged and raped me. It's not always easy but the alternative for me is death. ..In AA I've made a lot of friends and am feeling and looking healthier. I'm also learning self respect and how to take it easy. ..If you ever need to talk feel free to pm me!
AA has helped me a lot but the meetings do vary quite a bit which makes sense with so many different people I suppose. I like women's meetings and book study meetings. Thank you for sharing your experience. I'm sorry it was so unfulfilling. 
Good that you went to the 3 meetings and have the experience of listening to a sponsor. Whenever you go in the future you'll know to stick with the women. And that you can find people your age who have found a solution that's working well for them who are no longer struggling to get a day sober.
Try going to women's stag meetings!!! I had the same issue with regular AA meetings. Used to get so uncomfortable during them I would just dip right after the meeting ended. Was a HUGE roadblock in my recovery then I started to just go to women's meetings only. The vibe there is totally different and everyone is much more relaxed. You can go without fear of male attention. Highly recommend taking this course of action. 
So have you thought of rejoining since your initial attempt? Just curious as most people aren't lucky enough to  get it  on their first try. I think the biggest challenge anyone faces when starting in A.A. is having the small amount of belief that it can work. That's something that having a few years sober is a problem now that I have some time and can sponsor people. My experience with newcomers is this; At first sobriety seems appealing. You change your life get new  toys  and life is wonderful. Then you begin going to meetings and see that it takes a lot of dedication and effort and nothing is really promised. At this point usually one of two things happens either you develop some kind of faith/belief or you try to do it on your own or you just decide it isn't for you. All those options are good it's just hard to see people that need help but still aren't interested. Anyway I wish you the best! Sorry for your 13th stepping experience A.A. really isn't the place for that. All I could say is that some are sicker than others! 
Some people say that the worst thing about AA is the people lol. I didn't find a home group until 1.5 years in and out of the rooms. I switched sponsors too. I really like the group I go to now and my sponsor is a great fit for me. I would encourage you to try different meetings since each group is self-organizing. ..I'm sorry you had a negative experience! But the meetings really just provide the community and support to help you work the 12 steps. I think it is worth looking into other groups :) Getting sober is much easier when you have a community in my experience. 
