-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/80195y/dropping_a_sponsee/

The way I understand the big book it tells me that if I feel someone is not ready I should find someone who is ready that is  worthwhile  ... Now I have had to cut ties with sponsees before and it is not easy but how many chances are we supposed to give? If someone just isn't listening or taking suggestions and doing the whole self-will-run-riot deal what do you guys do? Also if a sponsee relapses say after you've done the steps say maybe up to 6 or 7... or where-ever...do you start over??? I am just curious to see what you guys say. sponsorship is a crucial part of my recovery and I always keep at least two guys on i don't just give guys the boot and give up on them but sometimes I feel I need to find someone who is more  ready ... i have been sponsoring guys for a good few years and the first few years I didn't have too much success(meaning guys staying sober obviously but trust me I know its not MY success but rather the programs Gods and theirs but for strictly proof that program works i say success) but after learning more about how I wanted to sponsor guys I got better at finding guys who are more desperate and  ready  (IMO) thanks everyone!
----------immediate responses--------

If my sponsee is not getting it after sincere attempts and enough time I owe him the referral to a new sponsor.  I must ensure that someone is willing to pick up right after me so that the struggler is not left hanging.  This may also represent the consequence he needs to get serious.  I would start at Step 1 after a sponsee relapse because something was missed or not thoroughly followed.
I had a guy once tell me "sponsor the unsponsorable". Sponsorship is the 12th step. It's not about getting them sober it's about helping you stay sober. Obviously there needs to be boundaries and not waste time but it's okay if they aren't listening in my humble opinion.  You can still be the voice of reason in their insanity. 
Ha! Good luck in determining/deciding who's ready or not. I always agree to work with newcomers and have never fired any. The ones who won't do the stuff or have a better idea fade off and are forgotten. Some of my guys have over 30 years and include men I was sure at the beginning didn't stand even the slightest chance. I could poll some of my longer sober friends on the subject but I'm sure a few of them thought the same of me. Help whomever asks for your help...you are not the gatekeeper to sobriety...
Nobody is clairvoyant around here i guess i didnt make clear my question or point... ok so say yes to help everyone who asks and then never drop anyone??? So if over 40 years you sponsor a few hundred guys and they all stay sober you keep everyone? 
I help as many as I can and that is my goal I just wanted to know how much shit you put up wth before deciding its time to find a new prospect... i know some guys are a lot of work in fact I like the challenge but at some point you have to realize some prospects just dont make it... i dont believe in staying till the end for them this is life and death for everyone involved so I try to keep it real no games. If they refuse or wont listen I tell em find someone else sorry bye
it's not a marriage both sides of the relationship are ideally getting something out of it. Ending the relationship shouldn't be negative or personal it opens both people up to a better fit. Speak with love and compassion honesty with yourself and your needs is essential modelling to the newcomer...As a personal example I needed a sponsor who didn't require I call every day. Lots of people disagree with that in fact the daily call is a requirement for engagement with a lot of people I talk to who sponsor but my step work has flourished when I found a relationship where it was ok to decide when I call. Now in this situation I would totally have agreed that a sponsor who was more traditional in their style should let me go- that way we can both find something better suited to us. 
If they're not willing to go to any lengths to get sober there's no reason to sponsor them.  You can easily determine the lengths they're willing to go: Do they call every day?  Have they done 90 in 90?  Do they pray three times daily?  Do they do service at meetings?  Do they abstain from new relationships and sex relations?  Do they eat right and engage in daily exercise?  Do they have a job?  Do they follow all your other instructions without question or resistance?  If so they're ready.  Otherwise you can leave them to die with a clean conscience.
