-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/80zubc/made_amends_to_an_ex_today_it_went_as_well_as_i/

I am a year and a half sober and moving cross country next week so and I had a big amends that I wanted to make to my ex-boyfriend before I move I put it off for so long because A) it was the hardest one to do and my sponsor had me start with easier ones and B) I still have feelings for this guy...Anyway I tried contacting him a couple times in the past 24 hours as I couldn't sleep this week knowing that I want to make this amends before I move. (Prime example of "If you don't work the steps they will work *you*.") Ended up doing the amends over the phone this morning took responsibility and acknowledged where I was wrong in our previous relationship and apologized and asked if there was anything I could do to make it right...He was super sweet per usual and told me that there's nothing I need to do to make things right and that he's happy that am doing well and that I've stayed sober. And we chatted for a couple minutes and that was it...I was honestly hoping that I would instantly feel better afterwards and that the promises were going to fall right into my lap but I'm just struggling with the fact that I need to sit with this and sometimes they materialize slowly when I do the work for them. And I want to feel awesome right now ^^^(what ^^an ^^alcoholic.) but I just feel so uncomfortable and sad. I want so badly to pretend this away but I know that's not the answer and that would be no different than when I was drinking...Anyway I think the fact that he has said he has moved on is part of it I'm not sure. With all the other amends I've felt a huge relief instantly. I'm not able to get ahold of my sponsor today. I've gone to a couple meetings so far and am going to go to another one today just trying to do the next right thing but in the meantime would love to hear your guys' experience strength and hope on the matter...
----------immediate responses--------

I wish I had some experience to offer. I'm facing a similar situation in the near future so I'll just say that "I'm with you" so at least there's someone else in the boat with you while you face this aspect of life. Serenity to you today.
This is all such good stuff! Congrats on your sobriety and on working the steps properly. I'm glad your ex was open to amends also..My own experience I don't get an immediate glow. That comes later the next few mornings when I know I've cleaned my side of the street and I no longer have to live that way again. Even better the more amends I do the faster I become unblocked and closer to God. The closer I am the less I think of myself the more I become available to be of maximum service. You're on a road to great things and I'm incredibly excited for you. Good luck!
Well it sounds like you already *know* this but remember that amends are about clearing our side of the street and making things right.  Indirectly we should feel better but it's not the primary motivation.  And I'm sure if you still have feelings for him this is complicated stuff! And yet you still did it you aren't drinking over it and you will eventually feel at peace about it if not now.  So remind yourself this will pass and try to focus on the fact that you did a courageous thing. I'm proud of you! 
Amends to an ex are often loaded with emotion. It sounds like you are grieving--sadness about the loss of the relationship--sadness about the cost of alcoholism in your life. It's normal...I made amends my my best friend but she still didn't want to have a relationship with me. It hurt. We were friends and babysat each other's kids and were close for many years. Still the damage I did with my drinking was just too much. I was very sad to say the least. ..Thank for posting. 
One thing I have learned about step 9 is that people rarely react in the way I expect or hope they will. It usually works out much much better than what I imagined but sometimes not...I made amends to my ex-wife. I was secretly (and selfishly) hoping she might admit some of her own mistakes or perhaps show some forgiveness. She didn't...Her reaction? She said one thing - "Just pay the full amount of [child support] money on time and every month!"..So that's what I did. ..The amends worked out exactly as it should have - just not the way I wanted.
Step 9 cleans up the wreckage of our past but Step 4 and 5 help us deal with resentments fears sex and wrongs.  It sounds like the answer is embedded in your post from the following excerpts;..&gt; I still have feelings for this guy...&gt; He was super sweet per usual .....&gt; Anyway I think the fact that he has said he has moved on is part of it I'm not sure...You made the amends but this ending/ended relationship deserves some Step 4 work and discussion with a sponsor.  Sounds like you feel for the guy and are sad it's over.   Best wishes to you in moving forward in your recovery.
I made amends to a couple of exes (imagine that...)..There's a few that stick out that I still felt really uneasy about afterwards...To my ex-wife she basically said "Yeah... you put me through hell." and asked that I participate in the annulment process through the catholic church. I did. I didn't feel better for a long time...Another was a girl that I sort of dated. I had no idea how mean I was to her until after the amends. I was terrible. It all came back to me when I sent her a message (she wouldn't talk to me on the phone. I did it through Facebook because she was willing to talk to me there). I apologized asked what I could do to make it right. She said don't worry about it and let me know she was a few months sober at the time. Afterwards I felt shame. Then through conscious contact with my higher power I felt awareness. I simply was not a great guy. I had thought for a long time that maybe I wasn't so bad and its true that in many cases I wasn't. But I became aware of how much Mr. Hyde came out in my actions while I was drinking...This third was the most interesting. Another ex. I dated her for a couple of years and I wasn't nice. I went through the process apologizing for my actions asking what I can do to make her whole. Her response was something along the lines of "Whenever I think about that time it still cuts me like a knife. I'm glad you're sober. Please leave me alone." Ouch... More amends to live. Got it. Lots of asking god for vision of what I should be. 2 years later she reached out to me and apologized for her part in things. And we chatted for a few minutes. For the first time most likely we genuinely wished one another well before saying goodbye. It was nice. ..I don't know why any of this happens the way it does. If I had made amends to any of them and they instantly forgave me I'm sure it would have most likely just fed my ego. In these cases all of the reactions just lead me towards more connection to the program more connection to Bubba (higher power) and the discarding of parts of me ego. Today I'm grateful for all of those things though at the time it was sometimes really uncomfortable...At the end of the day I was guided to see the truth of my actions. And discover more truth about myself. Which is most likely the point of things. 
