-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/81wrib/serial_relapses/

Well the title says it all. I've been in and around AA for coming up-to 11 years. During that time I've had months with complete abstinence and a couple of times I've hit or almost hit the year mark...I'm a binge drinker. So my relapses can be one night affairs sometimes it can be where I drink 3 or 4 times a week for a while for a period of months. ..I absolutely hate it. It feeds into a negative cycle of self loathing as inevitably I do or say stupid things that make my life worse. This in turn impacts my mental health and self esteem. ..I've had sponsors and worked through to step 10. I've done steps 4 5 and 9 and few times now (the hard ones) and I will say it had a positive effect but it hasn't stopped me drinking. ..I have a new sponsor who is very good he listens to me and actually seems to care. As a result I've opened up more than I have done with previous ones. But I'm still struggling not to binge especially if my depression is particularly bad. ..I don't want to have to keep doing this over and over and over again. Each time I "come back" it gets harder and harder to go through it all again. Just to throw it away a few days weeks months later. ..I can't even say that I'd rather be drinking I HATE the stuff. It has been the root cause of all my problems and yet I find myself doing it over and over. ..I'm just tired of it all and wanted to get it out there as I'm not a very eloquent sharer and frankly people must be sick of seeing back in and out all the time. ..Thank you for reading. ..PS. Typing on mobile so apologies for spelling mistakes etc.
----------immediate responses--------

Thanks for sharing. Sorry it hasnt been very easy for you...It is good that you say you are feeling more confident in opening up. That indicates you know you havent been completely open and honest...I hope you feel comfortable enough to keep coming back and feel free to share on this page any time you want to get something off your chest
The hardest step for me was step 6 - being entirely ready to change. It's the step that "seperates the men from the boys". Am I really ready to be rid of those things about myself that are holding me back from living a sober spiritual life dedicated to helping others? Because in the end that's the only path that worked for a chronic alcoholic like me...The most powerful step of all is step 12 - it works when all else fails. (And when I talk about step 12 I don't mean sponsoring other members. I mean proper twelfth step work as described in the Big Book - carrying the message to people who haven't heard it yet.) ..The purpose of the steps is for me to become of maximum use to others. And being a former chronic relapser my story can be uniquely helpful and valuable to other chronic alcoholics...The only way for me to overcome self loathing and improve self esteem is to do esteemable things...So in daily meditation (step 11) I ask what I can do for the still suffering alcoholic. When I focus on that I get out of self I stay sober and my life becomes joyous and free. 
I've only been sober for 9-ish years but in that time I've not gotten tired of people who go out and come back in.  I actually always wonder "can they see why they went back out" and therefore I wonder the same for you...It isn't what you did in the past that brought you to another binge: it is what you didn't do properly or thoroughly or whatever-ly that caused another stumble on the road of happy destiny.  To my understanding seeing what you didn't see is probably the most important part for someone in your situation...Personally when I went back out it was because I convinced myself I wasn't like the alcoholics in the rooms.  I stopped hearing similarities and starting seeing all the differences.  I found plenty of inconsistencies in the big book and in people's stories.  AND none of that is why I drank again.  I drank again because I failed to do step one fully and completely.  I said I was an alcoholic and I believed myself but I didn't fully comprehend how entirely and utterly and fully life-altering that realization should be.  I kinda had an idea in my head that the way the step reads is somehow past tense and therefore the condition was passing.  Well duh of course it is past tense: they were writing about the past!  But to me it was a window I could crawl out of instead of accepting myself as I really am: an alcoholic now and forever no matter how much time passes between drinks :)..Lots of other little things by the way.  I hated counting days because you can never win that game.  I mean seriously I'm supposed to count UP to ... what?  Infinity?  OMG fuck that!  What a silly thing to get a resentment over eh?  But yeah I did and that was just more leverage for me to decide AA was all messed up ... and I wasn't like them.  I am.  I am just like them.  Heck I actually am them :)..Best of luck to you and I do hope to see you on the road of happy destiny one fine day :)
.*This in turn impacts my mental health and self esteem.*..* But I'm still struggling not to binge especially if my depression is particularly bad.*..These 2 lines jumped out at me. Did you/are you getting any support for this outside of AA?  The programme is wonderful but you might need extra support?  
People who have too much pride to commit to themselves that they will talk with a member before they drink often drink again...Maybe this time around rethink your position on doing that little thing.
Why do you keep going back to it ? What is your  rational  prior to you giving up on sobriety ?
I was where you are and I kept drinking. I ended up in hospitals and mental wards. For me it was a matter of finally being desperate enough that it was literally quit or die. Then I was finally able to completely let go. I don't know what I was so afraid of. Life is so good now! I still think about drinking sometimes but I'd be thinking about it all of them time if I was doing it. 
Got to keep going to meetings to stay sober. When you want to pick up a drink call your sponsor.
