-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/821wd0/i_use_alcohol_to_manage_my_anxiety/

I am in a professional role and am technically very good at what I do but I struggle with task management and have a real cognitive issue with the processes in place to manage workflow. I've developed many avoidance techniques which seem to keep the wolves from the door my immediate superior says I just need to manage my time and I could be a superstar but it's not time but tasks I can't manage..I avoid simple tasks and they become bigger issues. I perceive those issues to be even bigger than they are because of my mindset which makes me avoid them in the first place..Knowing at some point they must be dealt with in my head I think I'll be sacked (I won't) but have a mortgage so seem to do all I can to avoid discussion..When I leave the office I turn to alcohol to get me through the evening using it to ignore the weight of life and accelerate sleep..I'm intelligent enough to realise I should just stop and rectify damage done but can't seem to physically break that cycle..It's a Sunday and I've had two bottles of wine and four lagers. That isn't right..Sorry if this isn't within rules I've just come to a point where I need to talk aboit it.
----------immediate responses--------

Go to an AA meeting bud. I was in the same position always avoiding life and managing my anxiety by drinking. You don't have to live like this anymore. 
Would it be possible to go to treatment?  Could be a way to break the cycle.  Don't have to wait for a disaster to do something about your drinking.   Hang in there you don't have to live this way anymore.
Getting a handle on your drinking isn't necessarily going to make your situation any better but it will certainly not make it worse. Having a few drinks with friends after work and blowing off steam is healthy alcohol consumption. What you're doing - as you obviously know - is not. Eventually the hangovers are going to make your work suffer and then you might well lose your job. I can't say if you're an alcoholic or even if you have a drinking problem. You're under tremendous stress and your using alcohol to deal with it. I think if you get rid of that stress the overconsumption might sort itself out - as long as you're not an alcoholic. Practically this might mean having a sit down with your manager and finding ways to alter your workflow to cut some stress out - even if that means you're not as valuable to them as they thought. You're no good to them or yourself if you have a nervous/alcoholic breakdown. 
I got diagnosed with an anxiety disorder which was my rock bottom. Complete nervous breakdown after being in the exact same situation you've been in for years. I knew medication wouldn't work while i was still drinking and that was my motivation. The 12 steps is amazing for anxiety. I've spent a fortune on therapy and its the most effective thing I've tried to date. I've learned to tolerate mg anxiety and not fer my feelings so much one day at time. I promise you can have the same freedom and you'll meet many others that struggle with their feelings too in AA. you don't have to be alone anymore in this xxx
I could have written this 200 days ago. I was very high functioning and work in a responsible job. Problems that could have been solved with a simple phone call or email were put off until they needed more attention and involvement than should have been necessary if I had taken immediate action. I was great at managing my employees' issues and inspiring them to be top level all the while I was struggling to keep my workload under control. I was being evasive with my own manager being dishonest doing barely enough and always dreading tomorrow. I drank from the moment I got home until I passed out. If I woke up no way I was falling back asleep because my mind would start whirring like mad. I hated Sunday because it meant Monday was tomorrow so I drank all day while doing chores and watching television. .It was no way to live or die..I've been sober since October 16 of last year so around the 150 day mark. I am honest in all my affairs and always do the next right thing. Calls are made emsils are sent and today's problems get attention today or at the earliest realistic time. I sleep restfully I have a healthy appetite and I know in my heart and mind that it is because I am sober and working the program..Good luck.
I'd say see a doctor.  You're describing anxiety but you're self-medicating.  You could concurrently check out some A.A. meetings.  They aren't mutually exclusive.
Welcome to the club. There is a way to manage anxiety without alcohol in our experience alcohol usually makes anxiety much worse over time.
Yup that's me 6 years ago. I had poor problem solving skills. When tough times hit me I ended up with my head swirling with issues and it wa impossible for me to focus on 1 and solve it. Every time I talked to myself about a problem it turned into a never-ending sentence listing all my problems. It was really tough...The hardest part for me was to quit drinking luckily state prison helped with that. While serving 4 years and 3 months(got 9 months good time) I spent a lot of time on the 12 steps. That's when I had the chance to do a house cleaning listed all my problems on paper and work on them one at a time...The hardest part is to stop drinking by far. Surprisingly what I thought was helping by drinking was what held me back from progressing. They say we stop growing mentally when we develop an addiction and I believe that. Now a few times a day like in the shower in traffic or during mindless work I stop to take inventory of my issues determine which one needs work right now solve or come up with a plan to solve it then move onto the next one...Please remember you are not alone many others have gone through the same stuff you have.
This sounds so much like me especially the avoidance. ..Here's the thing: I'm a couple months sober now and my anxiety is the lowest it's been in my adult life. ..Heavy alcohol use turns any anxiety you might have up to an 11. We think we are medicating it with alcohol because we get a few hours here and there at the beginning of the day's drinking where we find some relief but after the initial stages the pendulum swings way back in the other direction as our brain and body process the booze. ..Have you noticed the jitters in the mornings after drinking? 
If you were intelligent enough to realize you should stop and repair the damage you would do take the actions needed to accomplish that. More realistically put you're sharp enough to see a problem you're choosing to put off resolving  which fits the pattern on the job you mentioned earlier...On the job you procrastinate dealing with simple problems. Alcoholism is not simple and over the long term it defeats all but a very few of us. You may want to address your problem effectively sooner than later.
It's like throwing a boomerang it's gonna come off to bite your head. 
