-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/832ulw/is_it_coman_to_relapse_and_start_drinking_heavier/

So I had a month of being sober at that point I relapsed once I came off the so called pink cloud. I thought I would be able to control it and make it more of a weekend thing but it progressed over a few weeks and now I'm literally drinking every single night! Before attempting sobriety I would drink about 3 to 5 nights a week and not as many drinks in one night as I am now. Ever since I started drinking again it's like alcohol became that ex-girlfriend that you lost and you missed so much and now she's back and you just can't get enough of her and you don't want to ever loose her again! Can anyone else relate to this?..So for those of you who are sponsor's or have had an amazing sponsor before please give me advice on how to really absorb the first step of admitting that I am powerless under alcohol and my life is unmanageable! What do you do with your sponsees on the first step or what have you seen in the past that has been very successful on helping people come to terms of their powerlessness under alcohol?..Thank so much for any advise given!!!
----------immediate responses--------

Someone told me that you have to experience the first step on a  gut  level. There can be no doubt in your mind that you are an alcoholic and essentially to drink is to die. As you see it only gets worse over time. A lot of people try to minimize their past or assume that since they have been sober a while that they have a handle on their drinking.  The idea that somehow someday he will control and enjoy his drinking is the great obsession of every abnormal drinker.  Big Book pg. 80. If you feel that it helps sometimes going to a 3-day detox an give you a good start. It's not ideal with work and the rest of your life but it provides a barrier between you and drinking. I'd say that should be your main priority right now the first step is an aid with that but if you're still drinking you should make abstinence your main goal. At least until you feel that you can begin working the steps. Definitely go to meetings try to look at the times and reasons that you are drinking and maybe  interrupt  your day at those points with a meeting or calling someone in recovery or anything to get out of your head. And don't pick up!!!
Yes it's common. Everytime I have quit and after a few months I think I can handle it it always starts out just one or two each time. 6 months later I'm worse off than when I had first quit. You have to remind yourself why you quit constantly. ..Like for me I love not waking up and having that feeling in my stomach wondering what I did last night or what I said (because I blacked out so I don't remember which got to be just about every time I drank)... I love being able to wake up early without a hangover or still being drunk. ..I love not constantly embarrassing myself.  ..Think about why you want to quit. And stay focused. You have to remind yourself that with alcohol all roads leads to where you are right now or worse. 
Many believe that Alcoholism is a progressive disease.  This means that it gets worse never better. ..So even if we stop if we start again it will progress just like you have described.  ..So then we find ourselves doing some of those  yets  that we said we never got.  ..I never got a DUI but if I go back out it becomes a real possibility. ..What I am also afraid of are the  agains .  How many times did I wind up accomplishing nothing but being drunk? Do I really want to go back and do it again?
Do you drink more often than you want and in larger quantities than you want to? Do you quit but then find yourself drinking again? What does your life look like when you're drinking? Does drinking effect your job? Your relationships? Legal or financial issues? A yes to any one of those tells me you are powerless and unmanageable...Do you believe you can control your drinking or do you understand that alcohol will grab you and do what it wants to your life? 
That's a very common story in AA. Id say that's how it is for the majority of the people i know.  They say it's progressive.  Every time I relapsed it seemed to get worse. Not always right away but pretty quickly. 
As someone who has relapsed several times I understand where you are coming from. Sometimes you just wanna be sober but you just don't at the same time. You're  not alone here.  That was my dilemma. I thought  I could find an easier softer way to recover without complete abstinence .  I understood that I was ruining my life but I just couldn't stop because there was still a  part of me that didn't  want to. I was scared to death of being sober. And yeah it got worse each time. I think one thing that all of us alcoholics might have in common is that we are ridiculously stubborn people. And that's  not a bad thing For me instead of being stubborn about going out and black out drinking and finding out just how much pain I could take... I had to get stubborn as fuck about my recovery instead. It's became  as simple  as this. " I will not drink no matter what." No exceptions.  And listen dude you don't  have too either.  For me  this had to become the absolute cornerstone of my recovery.  Whatever it takes...No one can convince us of our powerless. Sometimes it's  a random moment of clarity. Sometimes if you're  lucky life will cosmic body slam you so hard that it brings you to your senses. Or we just keep self harming ourselves enough until we know we've  had enough. And maybe it happens a million other ways. But it all starts with me. "I will not drink  no matter what." Start there.  PM me anytime bro. You never have to drink again. 
I'm convinced that I have a progressive disease that can be controlled (but not cured) by not drinking. So I just don't drink today. I had no idea how much alcohol was compromising my life until I stopped. Best wishes. 
Happened to me too.  Same thing...It was actually ironically a big part of my recovery process.  It helped me fully internalize at a core gut level how powerless I am over alcohol. 
I'm glad you are sharing. This in itself is in a certain sense admitting you are powerless over alcohol. ..All of the advice given is on point. I really appreciate and applaud everyone's response to this. ..These Reddit posts are awesome insights that help me through my day. ..I love this as a potential topic for a group I chair each day. The progressive disease and the freedom we aquire once we free ourselves from the bondage of alcohol. ..Chris K
I have been in out and around programs for 12 years.  The longest I put together totally clean and sober was 13 months.  Putting in 12th step work working with a sponsor and sponsees chairing meetings.  Hell starting meetings!.After I went back out  life really turned upside down about two years later.  After two years out of the rooms we had bought a house decided to start trying to have kids and I thought she had found peace (she's an Al-Anon).  I had gotten confident in my control over my drinking because I started to get the things my drinking always seemed to keep from me.  This is all after almost losing my marriage freedom and life more than once or twice before..I got comfortable and felt I could handle being out of the rooms or out of recovery.  I went back out because I let my mind get in my way didn't reach out to another addict/alcoholic rested on my laurels etcetera.  I felt I was right until my wife who I have been in a relationship with for 9 years who I was trying to have a child with surprised me by telling me not only was she not in love with me anymore but looked at me as a friend all 4 days before she told me she was pregnant.  .I went back out because I let my mind get in my way didn't reach out to another addict/alcoholic rested on my laurels etcetera.  I never realized until I was faced with the result of my surrender to alcohol what I had potentially lost. (Fyi this is my current actual situation.) This being my last day of smoking or drinking myself good luck man go to meetings go to Your YOUR higher power..All you have is today..You don't have to drink or use today..You can be kind gentle and patient with yourself today..You are awesome! Treat yourself like a best friend you truly honestly love :)
Keep coming back! All that jazz really is true. The more I could sit my ass in that seat the more I was exposing myself to serenity. I learned by osmosis at first. I hated it to begin with. I had a sponsor break down step one for me. Literally. I defined willingness admittance allergy and powerlessness in Webster's dictionary. Then I wrote a paragraph as to what those words meant to me! Then found the examples in the book and wrote about my feelings of those. To me I felt the need to study the steps. Study the program. Then most importantly study myself and my behaviors. Feel free to message me anytime at night. I work NOC :) 
Thank you for all of you're comments. I need to start going back and find another sponsor. I just want to make sure that going into it this time I have a better mentality and also a better awareness of how powerless I am under alcohol.
