-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/833v4o/im_contemplating_joining_aa_advice/

There is a lot of writing here and it's cool if you choose not to read it. I'm kind of all over the place with this and there's a lot left out about my habits and reasons I drink and my mindset and experiences with alcohal it's hard to know what to write and what's important. ..So I'm 27 and am thinking about joining the program. I've never really thought of myself as having a problem it was always just fun to drink for me. I started drinking in high school and would drink a ton not all the time but when I did I always drank until I was wasted. I joined the Marines at 19  and my drinking got way worse it's kind of a part of the culture in the Marines. I would drink the same way there I'd have times when I would try to go into a night drinking responsibly and there would be a tipping point and I wouldn't realize I crossed it until the next morning. I never usually got into trouble and just was the life of the party but I'd wake up regretting getting so fucked up I was more upset at letting the alcohol get the best of me than the night because I had a blast. It started to get really bad during my divorce and before my deployment. I would buy a bottle and drink by myself and go out with the purpose of getting super drunk. I spent a night in the tank once and when I was back home drinking my family tried to tell me they think I have a problem. I still just thought I knew how to have a good time and wasn't hurting anyone but they would see me so drunk at times I couldn't stand up straight . I mean people have a hard time telling if I even am drinking because I compose myself very well(until I don't.) A year after all of this I got out of the Marines and me and my best friend who I made during the Marines moved back to our home town(we were from the same place). We both struggled with our alcohol and leaned on each other a lot. We would teeter totter our months of struggling like a few months he'd struggle and be drinking a lot and I'd be the one who drank less and helped him and it would switch like that. I would drink when I was stressed or feeling emotional or even when I was super happy but not all of the time. My friend was on his turn of drinking too much and one morning I didn't hear from him and neither did his mom so she and I went to his apartment and I broke in. I found him cold and stiff with his revolver in his lap. (he would have never killed himself sober I knew it was the alcohol) It broke my heart more than anything ever has in my entire life. After that I feel like my alcohol issues have been super minimal. I can drink a few beers during a meal or event and not go overboard. I even DD'd for the first time in my life. My fianc  is really proud of me but what scares me is when I feel buzzed I still love it too much and it's honestly a way I feel close to my buddy who killed himself. Even with this huge accomplishment I still find myself craving a drink and I've bought a bottle of scotch to "relax" by myself and drank half one night and the next I finished it off and found another half bottle of vodka and tequila that I polished off. I enjoyed it so much just writing and drinking all night. Even with my drinking being less I feel like I substitute it with food or the gym or lean heavily on my fianc ... Even with feeling better about my drinking I'm still scared of the craving and occasional binges. I don't know if I need AA. I don't know if I could not drink if I went to a party or gathering like I don't know if I'd have fun and most of the time It's harmless and I have fun. I try to drink only when I feel I'm not doing it for unhealthy reasons. The idea of sobriety sounds nice but I tell myself I can be an adult and drink like one...There's so much more that I can't cover here like details of times I've drank or how I feel and I don't know if I need advice as much as I wanted to vent...Well if you read all this I wouldn't mind advice and answering any questions you may have that could help me figure out if I should attempt sobriety or if I am okay with how things have been going and just try hard to not abuse. I guess I'm not even sure if I have a problem or not...If you made it this far thanks! 
----------immediate responses--------

"I don't know if I need A.A." Well I'd suppose it couldn't  hurt to just go and find out if you do. When I went to my first meeting I wasn't  sure if I needed A.A either. Also I was drunk and still judging  the sbit out of everyone.  Lol. But I just kept going and listening because I didn't  know what else to do. Every once and awhile I'd  hear someone say something and think to myself. " I feel like that all the time" or "Man I remember when that happened to me". These were complete strangers and they were telling my story. .After awhile I started to suspect that  the odds of me sharing so many feelings and experiences with people who referred to themselves as having a problem with alcohol  may just be more than a random coincidence. Then I started talking to them after the meeting and I'd say " Well what about this" and " Have you ever felt like that" etc etc. It was a slooow process for me of acceptance  because I was blinded by my own denial and ego. Truth was I was a fucki mg mess. They all knew it. No one told me though. I had to see it.  Not saying that's  your story but it very well may be.  I don't  know. Or maybe you can control your drinking and aren't  an alcoholic. Only you can decide that. Just go and listen and try to be as honest with the experience as possible.  Who knows. Might turn out to be one of the  the  most important decisions you ever make.  All the best.
The only requirement for membership is a desire to stop drinking. That's it. ..Noone is going to convince you to go or try to force the program on you.  If you want to stop drinking permanently and find that to be hard to do I suggest you try hitting a meeting.
Semper fidelis devil dawg. Check out a meeting. There are also other alternatives such as Stop Drinking subreddit SMART recovery. Try out AA but if it doesn't work out there are other paths. Good luck.
