-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/83hdcr/coming_back_after_7_months_out/

I had 10 months in the program. I had worked the steps and been  graduated  by my sponsor. I chaired two meetings a week for several months. I had problems with the  god bit  always. I've been out on a 7 month relapse which has been awful and downright dangerous. I've been apprehensive but finally screw it I'm returning to AA..Before and since I left AA I've been looking into the secular movement within AA. I hope to learn more about how atheists are thriving in the program and maintaining sobriety. I hope to find a way to find meaning progress and comfort in AA once again while remaining true to myself. .I still have a lot of reservations but I don't really care either cause I just cant handle using anymore. It's gotten to be physically and emotionally crippling. I think I'm finally willing to shut up enough to accept some help. I reaaally want this to work this time. I haven't made it to a meeting yet today I just needed to tell some addicts I'm back. .Hugs to y'all for being here thaaaanks!
----------immediate responses--------

AA will always have your back.  You aren't the first and won't be the last relapse.  Be thankful you are alive to tell us about it and start reliving step one.  
Good plan sounds like good results are becoming more important to you than the methods used to achieve them. Becoming as open-minded as only the dying can be was a painful process for me too. I did later wonder if the years of fighting against the idea of tapping into a power greater than myself was worth the price I (and others) paid. ....
Good job man being back in the rooms is a good feeling isn't it. Welcome back. 
What does it mean.l to  graduate ?  As far as I know I never grow out of my alcoholism. 
Hey man thank you for sharing because I'm in the same situation. I'm coming back after a 3 month relapse.  Today is my second day sober and my second day attending an AA meeting. You're not alone keep up the fight! I know how hard it is but we as a family will over come it together!!!
Hey have you ever seen a mountain or the ocean or a giant tree? I know science explains the existence of these things but that right there can be your higher power. If some sort of "power" or energy can create the ocean it can fix me. Don't worry too much about defining your higher power. The traditional concept of God doesn't work for me but I know there are powers out there a lot greater than me and if I'm willing to believe those powers can help me get better it just may work (and it has). My understanding of an HP is always changing. ..Welcome back. We are see glad you made it back!
I struggle with relapse too and with the god stuff.  I use  love  as my higher power.  Some people have tried to tell me that this won't work that I need a more traditional higher power but I know some sober atheists who have twenty years etc. so I try not to focus on this.  Alcohol will kill me if I go back.  Congrats on returning!
"I had problems with the god bit"..Sounds like we've found your problem.
