-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/84ma4t/fianc _less_than_1_month_sober_wants_to_drink_at/

Sorry for the novel; looking for some advice thanks in advance. ...After a number of escalating incidents my fianc  recently decided to stop drinking at the very least until our wedding in May potentially for longer. I am completely in support of this an have also stopped drinking in solidarity and to make sure he doesn't have any temptation in the house. He is not in any type of recovery program for both personal and practical reasons but has a fairly strong support network of family and friends. ...His friends - all of whom drink but only some to a problematic level - are throwing him a surprise bachelor weekend and he wants to drink while there. ...His arguments are; .- That it's s once in a lifetime experience which is supposed to symbolize the end of  that life  and won't lead to relapse. .- Was a surprise which would be rude to turndown completely but he has already said no bars or clubs just the boys at one of their houses playing video games etc. thus would be a safe environment in which to drink since no one will be driving or going out anywhere. .- They won't be drinking in excess just splitting a case between the 5 of them. ...On one hand I understand these arguments and agree with some of them such as it being rude to turn down entirely. I don't understand fully why drinking has to be involved. I know that he has fun with these guys sober I've seen it and I'm worried it's just another excuse to start up again. He and a few of the other guys attending have major self control issues once they've had a few and I'm not convinced they wouldn't go out for more beer after drinking the first 24. ...I've already told him I support him in his sobriety but this is ultimately his choice and voiced my concerns about a relapse. Despite this he is confident it will be a one time thing specifically related to the once in a life time opportunity of a bachelor party. ...I haven't struggled with this type of addiction but from my experience with other addiction and family members with addiction plus his history of  quitting  finding some excuse ( it's the holidays! ) and seriously relapsing I have trouble believing that this really will be a one time thing. I guess that's the really long winded way of asking your advice as people who have experienced this first hand. Should I be worried or is this really a one off? How can I best make sure he doesn't miss out on the fun of a bachelor party and still support him in his sobriety? 
----------immediate responses--------

I was sober at my bachelor party. My friends were not.  I still had fun.  
Alcoholic Anonymus' Big Book...Doctor's Opinion page XXIX.After they have succumbed to the desire  again as so many do and the phenomenon of craving develops they pass through the well-known stages of spree emerging remorseful with a firm resolution to not drink again. this is repeated over and over and unless this person can experience an entire psychic change there is very little hope of his recovery. ..Chapter 2. There is a solution p.19.Moderate drinkers have little trouble in giving up liquor entirely if they have a good reason for it. They can take it or leave it alone...Chapter 2. There is a solution p.22.Once he takes any alcohol whatsoever into his system something happens both in the bodily and mental sense which makes it virtually impossible for him to stop...Chapter 2. There is a solution p.23.The main problem of the alcoholic centers in his mind rather than in his body. ..Chapter 2. There is a solution p.23.They sound like the philosophy of a man who having a headache beats himself on the head with a hammer so that he can't feel the ache. ..Chapter 2. There is a solution p.23.Some drinkers have excuses with which they are satisfied part of the time. But in their hearts they really do not know why they do it...Chapter 2. There is a solution p.24.At a certain point in the drinking of every alcoholic he passes into a state where the most powerful desire to stop drinking is of absolutely no avail. ..Chapter 2. There is a solution p.24.The fact is that most alcoholics for reasons yet obscure have lost the power of choice in drink. Our so-called will power becomes practically nonexistent.
Don't get married. Seriously. Go read a big block of the posts on r/AlAnon see what a lonely experience you are setting yourself up for. ( no offense meant to the AA folks just trying to save him from getting tangled up in something he doesn't see)
The Doctor's Opinion p.XXX (Types of alcoholics)..2. There is the type of man who is unwilling to admit that he cannot take a drink. He plans various ways of drinking. He changes his brand or his environment..3. There is the type who always believes that after being entirely free from alcohol for a period of time he can take a drink without danger.5. Then there are types entirely normal in every respect except in the effect alcohol has upon them. they are often able intelligent friendly people.
Alcohol has to be involved because he is not ready to quit. ..The problem with the last hurah is there is always one more last hurah. ..be prepared for a bumpy ride. be prepared for "sweet. my wife went away. let's drink". ..I wish you luck. 
I have dealt with the same problem concerning my dad He isn't exactly addicted to it to the point of rehab or meetings. he can stay sober if he wants but always decides that it is safe for him to drink in moderation. ..for about past 6 months he decided to quit due to personal issues. about a month ago he wanted to go out with his friends for drinks because they invited him. my mom was against it but we decided to trust him and mom told gave him his complete support. he decided to follow through and drank in moderation. he also has not been drunk after that. I say bachelor party is a good enough reason to try and trust him if you don't have any prior experiences which point otherwise. ..I for one feel that he can maybe one day overcome the addiction and drink in moderation...also ask his friends to keep an eye on him for you too. he seems like a nice guy who needs love and support. even if he comes home with a blackout. try and be supportive and just treat him warmly. there are many ways to make a person realise mistakes...I wish you a happy future and an amazing marriage. addictions are escapes from negative stress. its psychological as well as biological. but i always like to believe a happy person can never become an addict... 
Does he have a sponsor?  If yes he needs a tougher one who will talk straight to him that to do this constitutes "going out".  Most people who do never make it back...Don't let him drink.  We all still have the desire -- that doesn't make him unique.  But he does need to develop the discipline not to.  I've got 15 months and my disease tries talking me into "just having one or two" almost EVERY DAY...My advice on the party is to ask him either to bring one or two sober/AA friends to help him resist drinking...OR throw a dry bachelor party.  If his friends are real friends they will support him and recognize he can't resist the temptation to drink alcohol.
Ah an extra-special event. I'd say give your permission because he'll likely drink anyway and swear his buddies to secrecy. It'll indicate that you trust in his ability to carry out his plan to hardly drink. He won't do that because he'll get thirsty after a few. ..Chances are excellent he'll stop for a bit again to prove he's in control before drinking again...because he believes he's in control of it. The dramas to come aren't going to be fun times.
Sober alcoholic here! .There's no safe place to drink when you have a problem with alcohol. ..High five to you for recognizing it's his choice and your control is very limited. Boundaries are so important when you love someone who struggles with alcohol...That being said it sounds like he has some reservations about staying sober... and sometimes people need to go out and do some more  research  about why they can't drink. Maybe he needs to do that. Maybe things need to get worse before they get better...And then maybe you can decide if this is something you want to commit yourself to for life. At least right now. That sounds dramatic but I'm serious..I married the man I was with when I was still drinking but not until I was sober for 3 years...Good luck     
He is not ready. He is going to drink. And there will be more than a case of beer for five people. I hope you walk into this marriage with your eyes wide open. Life as an active alcoholic is hard life with an active alcoholic is harder. And vice versa. 
