-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/84trli/after_a_year_and_93_days_of_being_sober_my/

So for the past year and 3 months while sober I have been using anime video games and school to give me an escape from reality. I've been replacing negative habits (alcohol) with better habits. It has worked out really well lately until this past week. For this whole time I haven't even wanted to drink at all and I could easily turn it down and not think about it. It hasn't been tempting me. I go day by day with constant fear that my little voice in the back of my head is going to take over and have me believe I can drink. It's a crazy strong urge and no one can change my mind if it gets past a certain point. I become a whole different person and nothing can convince me not to drink. I'm not there thankfully but it's how I relapsed the last couple times. I've been depressed lately (for no reason at all because nothing is going wrong in my life). I just really hate how I can be in such a good mind set for so long and then my brain switches over to "well I want to drink so I'm going to". It's very scary. I just took psychology 101 so now it's causing me to try to think deeper into things lol. But seriously why does my brain do this. So I'm tying to dig deeper and think about what has changed this past week to cause me to feel irritable depressed and basically just wanting to be fucked up. I wonder if it has anything to do with having to take Vicodin for 3 days because I've had a massive WEEK long migraine and nothing got rid of the pain. I know I can't keep pain killers around (have to keep them at my parents) because I love the feeling too much but I'm wondering if that's what is fucking with me. Thank you for letting me vent. 
----------immediate responses--------

Yes it has to do with having to take Vicodin. ..You're feeling like hell but you're OK. This will pass. ..If you want to talk PM me and I'll give you my phone number. 
Yes you're heading for a relapse...Where are you with a higher power?  What are you doing to get out of self and help others? 
Alcohol is powerful cunning and baffling. Always has been for me a d always will be. .You recognize your situatiion and that's great. What you need to fo is deny your permission statements and play the tape to the end. Remember why you stopped the readon is still there. Call your sponsor or someone else in the fellowship. Get out for a coffee with one of us it's why we're here and helos us as much as it does you. Get to a meeting...The cravings are temporary and will pass..
Damn that sounds like a horrible existence. Is there much difference between your drinking life and your current life other than the obvious?..Wouldn't you like to know a new freedom? 
Alcohol is patient as hell. As well as cunning baffling and powerful. Taking pain meds is a good way to open the door.
Ever seen someone quit for a while then drink again? It's the way things usually go.
First off as an opiate efficienado Vicodin doesn't do anything for migraines if migraines are an issue for you talk to your doctor about something like Imitrex. ..And that pill taking the edge off is not helping you with cravings but surely making them worse as your brain remembers that buzz. Also is it coincidence that this is happening right before one of the biggest drinking days of the year with St Pats which is also a Saturday this year so it's an especially good one.
