-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/854459/90_days/

Thanks to God the rooms of Alcoholics Anonymous and people like you I'm sober today and have been for 90 consecutive days. ..I have a long history of addiction and at 36 years old I've finally taken the step to take the steps. In and out of the rooms never staying more than a few meetings. In and out of jail 2002-2003. In and out of consciousness 2005-2018. Drinking was my way out of life... until drinking led me to a nasty addiction to pain killers. It wasn't until I discovered that I was physically incapable of giving up these pills that I finally recognized the truth. ..I am a true big-book example of the alcoholic. I cannot control my drinking my drug use or my life. ..When I finally walked into the rooms I had 30 days of white-knuckled sobriety. It was just the same as every other time I walked into the rooms except this time God had opened my eyes and ears to the truth all around me. ..Thank God for the old-timers who stuck their hand out to me and celebrated each time I came back. They told me "keep coming back" and I listened. They told me to reach out to other alcoholics and I'm doing that. They told me to get a sponsor and read the book and I'm doing just that. When I walk into the rooms I have a spiritual experience of peace and serenity. No matter how messed up my head is once I open that door - I find some rest. ..Now for the 12 steps to help me find that serenity and peace in my everyday life. I'm still struggling to be happy I'm struggling to stay sober but the great gift is: This time I'm not doing it alone. ..It took me a year of trying and failing to get these 90 days and I encourage anyone who keeps falling down to keep coming back. "I haven't failed I'm only found 100 ways that didn't work." ..Thank you to all of you for being here on this sub 24 hours a day so I never have to be alone. I never have to drink or take drugs again and that feels both good and terrifying at the same time!  
----------immediate responses--------

Congrats on 3 months!
Congratulations on your 90 days! Thank you for sharing. I really enjoyed reading this. I found getting sober an amazing experience and it sounds like you are finding the same. It is called recovery for a reason. Rooting for you  
Wow! Congratulations!  Keep it up
Bravo for 90 days! 
We'll said. Stick around. More will be revealed. 
Wow. That is really awesome! Congratulations on 90 days! Keep up the good work :)
Teach us master
Teach us master
Teach us master
