-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/85h1dg/psychedelics_in_recovery/

hey everyone - this is an interesting topic that's been raising itself in my life lately:..I've been in the rooms since I was 16 off of pills i'm now in my early 20s recovering from iv cocaine and heroin. ..Earlier in my youth I used psychedelics occasionally but never saw the appeal - they didn't make me feel "good" or quiet the incessant noise in my head in fact frequently they made it louder - they just made me notice things more or feel "different" so i primarily abstained instead expending my resources towards opiates and stimulants and drink. ..At this point in my recovery though I've just barely dipped my toes back into psychedelics. Around a month ago I used LSD once. ...I did so with some apprehension that it would re-awaken my addiction but after surrendering myself to that possibility and reminding myself of Bill's use of LSD saying that it could invoke a spiritual experience in an addict who wasn't having one I took the plunge and I was truly amazed. ...It wasn't at all recreational. It was at some points almost unpleasant. There was anxiety. There was a deep view into my own thought processes surrounding drugs. ..I watched every aspect of a craving form I noticed how irrational that phenomenon is which is something I never do. ...A month after the experience I feel no urge to do it again. No cravings no desire to feel different. ..Nothing aside from a reduction in my depression and a subtle deadening of a little piece ego that no stepwork or 12th step or spiritual experience had any measure against. ...Some things do come to mind though - when bringing this up in meetings I'm expected to restart my clean time and treat it as a relapse. ..I'm not sure what I'm asking perhaps it's more of a discussion post but I'm just curious as to what everyone's experience with this topic have been? ..Thanks y'all!..
----------immediate responses--------

It certainly can help broaden your perspective I used LSD the first time I got clean for a similar purpose. I think it's a slippery slope though because regardless of your intention for using it's still using. I eventually went back out for awhile not sure if it was connected. This time around (almost 2 years) haven't wanted to do it again. There shouldn't be any reason for me to alter reality if I'm living a good one is kind of what I'm after now. Good luck!
you have probably already done this but you can Google this topic and see researchers are looking into using LSD / mdma to treat alcoholism and depression/anxiety. Dr Ruth Fox was one and of course you know about bill wilson. ..My experiences were favorable. ..
Probably useful as an indicator of how committed someone is to their individual sobriety which predicts their chances over time if anyone should be personally involved with them and interested in their prospects...The opposite attitude would be those who trouble themselves to read labels and avoid any foodstuffs that contain trace amounts of alcohol...Everyone gets to make their own choices and realize the benefits/consequences of their choices made. And the rest of us get to observe how things go see how things repeatedly play out. It's actually a type of service for the membership as a whole unless it's a carefully kept secret.
I would never do it because it would it my opinion decades of sobriety. No way!
My problems stem from my alcoholism. Not a non-addictive substance. So no I wouldnt reset my days. To me number of days doesnt mean anything anyway
Psilocybin worked for me. Weed brought me dangerously close to drinking (I will caveat I'm not in a place where weed is legal. Therefore THC will be particularly high. Strains more balanced/high in CBD may result in alternate effects.)..Psilocybin did help is the point. It is a tricky one to recommend however...For example I know some people can smoke cigarettes in recovery. I cannot because it leads me to weed almost certainly. Others do not have this association so can continue to smoke as they see fit...Similarly I never abused drugs while drinking so I do not have that association with them...If a person also used drugs and would need to engage with drug dealers to source the lsd then I would say it's a slippery slope. 
You don't see it as possibly replacing one substance for another? I understand your interest in creating a spiritual experience through its use but I think it's not the most straight-forward approach.
Dont do it. Ive been reading a book.. about lsd.. its all mind control. I got a video for it 2
