-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/85s6p0/on_march_25th_it_will_be_3_years_of_sobriety_for/

Long story short My wife quit drinking for good reasons 3 years ago March 25th. She said she wants to go to a meeting to get her chip. I am so incredibly proud of her for her staying strong especially since she and I both had some dark times and I know first hand how it can feel to want but not have a drink. She doesn't have many friends and unfortunately these days when you invite people to celebrate anything without booze many don't even give an excuse they just don't show up. So I'm here to ask you folks who know the struggle how you would or did celebrate a mile stone like this with the person you love most?    
----------immediate responses--------

Treat her to something she's been eyeing for a while and go out for a fun evening. Maybe get some rootbeer floats? That might be in bad taste though
Back when Hallmark had stores around these parts I used to have great luck finding AA or AAish slogans on gifts from there.  I think I even got a mug with the serenity prayer on it for my girlfriend for her "birthday" a couple years back.
Is it an open meeting?  I'd bet she'd love it if you were there to see her pick that chip up.  
Last year when I started a.a. there was a guy celebrating 2 years. A group of maybe 7 of us went to a stand-up comedy night. :-)
Something big. Something huge. Doesn't have to cost a lot of money but maybe some time. Maybe paint that bedroom the color she wanted. Or go to Lowes and YouTube how to give her that backsplash between the counter and cabinets...Or just even a home cooked meal with rose petals to lead her to a candle lit dinner for two at your family table. Or a like was stated earlier a night out on the town...But even at the end of the day it's just a card with a well thought out poem or just personification of your feelings that you *recognize* her incredible journey that should be fine. Go you.
She's going to pick up a chip? Does she not have a home group that she will get the chip from? Does she regularly attend meetings and work the program? Or is one of the people who only go to one meeting a year (to get a chip)? Do you have a problem with alcohol? It sounds like the best way to celebrate would be to spend the day going to meetings then make one of those meetings your home group and keep coming back. A home group is also a great way to make new friends.
Jewelry is always a big winner!
