-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/866pb8/i_know_i_have_a_problem_im_scared_to_get_help_and/

I'm 28 years old and I have been drinking to get drunk almost every day since I was probably 24.  I have been drinking since I was around 14-15 years old but the problem didn't really start til I was 24.  I loce drinking!  People have told me I am a joy to be around when I'm drunk which is nice but pretty much everything I do outside of work revolves around drinking...My girlfriend knows I like to drink but has no idea how much I drink.  It really sucks to say this because I really care about her but I have cancelled more plans that I can count to hang out with her so I can drink...I've never been to AA and it really scares me.  I know I have an issue and I just don't know what to do other than going to AA.  Can someone give me a recommendation for how to start this?  I live alone so I never have to worry about someone catching me because I'm always drinking alone...This is really difficult because I genuinely look forward to drinking but I know I have an issue.  My body definitely wants it nearly every day!  And I will be honest I have been drinking very heavily while typing this...I don't want this dependency I want to be a better person than the person I am.  Not just for me but for those I love and care about.  Even though they may not know how much I am struggling I personally see how I am around everyond without drinking I feel terrible!!
----------immediate responses--------

Just go to a meeting in your area. See if it's for you.....I personally didn't stick with the program but I have been sober for 228 days and counting. The meetings that I went to helped me realize that I wasn't the only person out there that felt the way I did and had the same experience I did with alcohol. AA accepts anyone that has a desire to stop drinking. From reading this post it seems like you fit the bill. 
Everyone has to go to their first meeting right?  You sound like you've certainly earned a seat at an AA meeting.  This time next week you'll think what was all the fuss about.  You're gonna love it it'll save your life.  
Would either of you 2 be willing to share your story?  I would completely understand if not.  Regardless you offering suggestions as to how to go about this means more than I can explain!
Maybe try to commit to going to a few different meetings for a set amount of time. Even if you continue drinking this can give you an idea of what AA or other programs (SMART ect) are about. You don't have to continue drinking even if you want to. It is scary AF going to your first meeting but people are VERY kind. Tell them you are new and I would be willing to bet that you will feel overwhelmed by the kindness and warmth from group members. There IS another way to live; a much more peaceful and serene life is available to you if you are willing to try!
You and I have almost identical stories I got sober at age 28 almost 3 years ago and didn't know where to start.  Drank every night in private to pass out and it gets worse from here my friend let me tell you...I got up the courage to go to my first meeting. Really easy to find just google for aa meetings in your area.   There is no negative stigma. It is all positive vibes and you'll realize Not going and continuing to isolate is a far darker place. Aa is actually an amazing thing and you'll meet people just like you. ..First step is admitting you have a problem so your already ready for step 2.  You might want to read online the first few chapters of the aa Big Book it'll help you decide if you are ready or not. ..Good luck and stay in touch on here. Your right where you need to be.
When I decided to go to my first meeting I downloaded an app called pink cloud that had a map of all the meetings in my area for the day.  I found one close to my and just went.  I was terrified to walk in.   You know what?  It wasn't.  People were welcoming and encouraging and talked about the solutions to this drinking thing we do.   The people were great and I could relate to what many spoke of.  I found my home.   It was one of the best decisions I have ever made.
If you have family and friends to support you you may not need AA but  a meeting definitely won'thurt. It got me started on my sobriety. ..If you're scared then it's a problem.
