-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/86fk09/i_dont_know_if_i_accidentally_took_a_sip_of/

I was house sitting for a friend the other night. She drinks but is not an alcoholic. I noticed the bottle of wine in the fridge and thought nothing of it. My desire to drink and use has been gone for a while..But I grabbed a half full bottle of cherry Pepsi. Took a sip and swear to god I thought I tasted whiskey in it. The panic attack was instant. I called my sponsor and 20 others freaking out. They assured me I wouldn't lose any time but I could give a fuck about that compared to the black outs and heroin needles that await a relapse. .She assured me there was no alcohol in it. So I don't know if I was just not accustomed to the cherry flavor of the Pepsi or if she was drinking from the bottle with alcohol on her lips..Can anyone relate?
----------immediate responses--------

Sure. Not to worry! ..It is a good sign however that you are so concerned. It sounds like your sobriety is important to you.
Yeah dark beers in red solo cups look a lot like a soda with no ice I've made this mistake and gotten cups mixed up a few times. I just spit it back out and then mark my cup in a more obvious way. Doesn't bother me any but everyone is different. I wouldn't mark it against my sobriety but everyone has their own definition of what that is.
Had a similar thing happen to me but definitely was alcohol. I was watching a football game at a sports bar with a few friends and was having club Soda with lime. I ended up taking a sip of someone else's vodka and sprite. The sweetness was a dead giveaway. I just walked to the bathroom spit it out and rinsed well...I didn't think it was a big dead (it wasn't) but I called my sponsor like you did and talked about it. .. We recoil as if from a hot flame . 
This happened to me about a year ago. I thought my fianc  had a rock and rye faygo poured in a glass while we were playing board games one night and I took a drink of it only to be met with the oh so familiar taste of rum mixed in with it. I spit it back in the glass and made her another one before she noticed... but it has definitely made me more careful about smelling a drink before I just dive in. I wouldn't really worry about it or change my sober date over it or anything but I'd be more cautious for sure. 
1. Ask your sponsor.2. An.old friend once said the first sip doesn't count in this situation. 
Totally. I ordered a soda water with lime at a resort last October and as soon as it hit my mouth I knew they messed up and threw vodka in it. I spit it out immediately and thankfully someone gave me their sprite. ..Stuff happens but I feel really good in those situations when I recoil (once the shock wears off!). It solidifies that I made the right choice and I'm doing a good job. 
I was about 6 months sober on my honeymoon. My partner and I went to Europe and during our stay in Rome we had dinner at this hole in the wall it was pretty good and we got this dessert that was like a sponge cake but we didnt realize it was soaked in straight raw ass alcohol. I took 2 bites and thought I relapsed I was trippin so hard. Talked to my Dad (who is 17 years sober) and he told me it was a mistake and was not intentional. Im coming up on my 2nd birthday next Monday so dont worry and keep working those steps!
Yeah I've had something similar happen to me. I freaked out too. Almost cried. It's not an intentional use. You're in the clear. 
Yes the fear is good and if it's still with you fortunately/ unfortunately I think you're OK.
I had this happen with a can of unflavored seltzer water which I opened myself. It tasted clearly of beer. My sponsor shared a similar story as a result and told me that it sounded like my disease choosing to insert itself in my day... as if it's our brain telling us "heeeey remember how much we liked xxxxx."
Similar thing happened to me. Only there was alcohol. Was traveling overseas ordered a virgin pina colada. I never had one when I was drinking so it's just tropical pineapple juice to me...There was a translation problem and I didn't realize how careful I needed to be. Me and my 8 months pregnant wife took big old sips looked at one another and said uh oh...Called my sponsor. He had one question. Did I take another sip once I knew what it was? No. He said don't worry and told me about when it happened to him at about a year sober. I prayed for a while inventoried my fears and carried on with life...Fear can be healthy. Pay attention to it. Embrace it as beautiful. Right now it's telling you that sobriety is important to you and that you don't want to lose it. That's a good thing...It's just more proof that I'm powerless over it.
I have literally never in 15 years heard of an accidental sip of alcohol turning into a relapse. Every time something like that has happened to me I've had similar upset feelings but no need to worry.  If you're gonna relapse from that the relapse started way before you took the accidental sip.
Thank you everyone for sharing your experience..Helps a lot.
My wife recently had a freak out type moment also.  She was at a going away gathering and ordered a 7-up and cranberry juice.  The bar keep brought her the drink and it tasted "off" after a few sips so she asked why. The bartender said to her that he put a shot of Grenadine in it by mistake and would remake it.  ..She frantically called and texted me that she had drank and told me what she had.  Believe her relief when I informed her that she had just consumed a classic kiddie cocktail.  Our minds are still very powerful during these moments but can become cloudy just as quickly as when alcohol was involved.  Your moment and my wife's show how honest we have become.
Here's my thought   not a recommendation   on this topic. Don't panic. Think rationally (It's not prohibited in AA). Spit it out if you can. If you swallow shrug. Honest mistake. Go on with your sober life. ..Counting days months or years is not a reward/punishment practice. Think only of today. If you think that you have disappointed cheated on driven away or otherwise defeated your higher power or your sponsor you're facing the wrong way. Reread the steps. Keep counting forward...The 12th step doesn't say  perfect these principles.  It says practice. Embracing fear in this scenario or any other is far far more damaging than accidentally taking a spiked sip. ..This is the message I get. 
