-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/86u7ju/cant_shake_this_shit/

I'm 60 days sober. About a week ago I think i might have accidentally taken a sip of alcohol at a friend's house..Read here https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/86fk09/i_dont_know_if_i_accidentally_took_a_sip_of/..Iv done an inventory. Iv talked to tons of people..And either way I feel like I'm not being honest with myself cuz I genuinely don't know if that drink had any in it..So if I call it a relapse or if I keep my time I'm feeling werid about both. At least today I am. And I'm not gonna drink or use over it today but I don't want it to add up.
----------immediate responses--------

I was less than three months sober. Taken through the Steps. And a recovered alcoholic. ..I went to see a band play at a bar with friends. I was drinking my normal seltzer water with cranberry and a lime. It was down to ice. I put it down and went to dance. ..I come back and went to drink the last couple sips of melted ice. But it wasn't. It was someone else's Cape Codder - Cranberry and vodka. I drank a sip and spit half of it out in the cup. ..I didn't freak out. It was an honest mistake. I said a quick prayer to my HP and carried on with my evening. The next day I called my sponsor. We reviewed it. He said to do a 3rd step prayer and if I was fully honest in my written 10th step on the experience than move on.  No date change no nothing. 
Something similar happens to many of us. Please stop worrying about it. This is not a relapse. 
Ive thought about this before and I believe that it's when you intentionally drink that it should affect your clean date. If you had no thoughts beforehand and was an accident then you will be fine as long as you don't let the incident affect your sobriety. Maybe be a little more careful in social situations but accidents happen!
I'm a big believer in motive. If you accidentally take a sip realized what you drank and went no further - that is very different from taking a sip and going hog wild because "what's done is done and I'm no longer sober". But you didn't. You made a mistake and corrected your course you stuck to your ideals of sobriety despite that mistake
Don't dwell on it. Let it go. Are you sober today? That's what matters. You can't change the past. You can be more careful with your sobriety in the future (assuming you weren't being careful). If I remember correctly you weren't even sure you drank alcohol. Even if it was it's not going to reset your time unless you chugged the entire glass...On that note this is not an excuse to go back out. Get your butt in a meeting.  MANY meetings. Stay connected with the people in the rooms. And don't let anyone threaten or demean your sobriety.
Hey dawg you did not intentionally drink alcohol. You arent even sure that you did. If you did it didnt bring back the phenomenon of craving it didnt cause you to drink again it hasnt led you to ruin relationships...You are worrying about something trivial and in a year or two when youre still sober you will look at this and laugh and you will know how to handle it when it happens to someone you sponsor.
You've heard from many now. Let it go.
When I was about 4 months sober I wasa bartender. My DOC had never really been alcohol but alcohol was always a part of my using career. I had just successfully had about 3 weeks with no drugs cravings(God's miracle) and I had done some 4th step work earlier that day. I poured a customer the last of a bottle of a very sweet dessert wine. I then pulled a glass from the bar and tried to pour what was left in the bottle into the glass. But it was empty! I thought about this nonstop for a week. It halted my recovery. Even though I didnt drink anything I intended to. Even though my intentions only lasted about 20 seconds I knew it was wrong and I did it anyway. Soooo I finally told my sponsor  who at first said nbd you didnt drink. But we talked more and when I explained how time slowed in those few seconds and more importantly how I had now kept this as a secret I had to pick up another chip. It sucked but in my case at the time I had to do it. I was keeping a secret which could lead to more secrets. And eventually using again for real in secret. I read your original post &amp; now this one &amp; I think you are in the clear. You didnt seem to have that intention. Unless you're keeping a secret and in that case you already know what you need to do. Best wishes! Keep us posted!
Don't be too hard on yourself it was an accident!
It's all about MOTIVE. If you accidentally took a sip of alcohol well guess what mistakes happen. If you're MOTIVE was to drink or get drunk then you're in the wrong. If it was an accident try to let it go and know that you're putting in all the positive effort you possibly can to do the right thing. I had a similar situation and it ate me alive. Once I spoke to my sponsor and came to the conclusion that I went down every Avenue I could to do the right thing I could live with myself.
Of course not. A slip is a once off. You have let your guard down and the next day you seek help immediately. A relapse is a conscious decision to drink despite knowledge of the alcoholic problem...Accidently sipping alcohol could become a "slip" when the event is compounded. In other words you have sipped alcohol and decide to compound the issue. ..A relapse is a conscious decision to seek alcohol. So a slip could quickly become  a relapse. You could have the slip and rather than seeing an opportunity for growth you decide to compound the slip by still further bouts of drinking. ..It's a grey area. Some hard liners will say and sip is a slip and all slips are a relapse to some degree...I sipped alcohol once in a desert. As it was food (in the form of cream) I thought it was save. I sipped it and instantly recognised it was alcoholic. So I passed the desert to my neighbour...If I had finished the desert knowing i was consuming alcohol this would have been a slip...Instead it was just bad judgment which was countered with right judgment...It sure was not a slip and did not end in relapse...Over three years without a drink...Amen.
I had a kombucha tea and didn't realize til i was halfway through it that it might contain alcohol traces said on the label. and i relapsed shortly after. not sure if there's a connection. but relapses happen and its part of recovery.
