-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/872ox3/forced_to_return/

So I got in trouble a year ago ( sober ) via acting on defects. I've since then relapsed and got shipped to Florida where I've lived in sober living and quite honestly flourished. For the first time I've built a great sober network of guys and was happy. I have six months of sobriety and ten days ago I received a note from my lawyer that I've got to return to Lancaster ASAP. I'm writing this on the airplane. For the first time in my life I've had real friends. I couldn't even properly say goodbye to all of them. It sucks. It's scary. I'm forced to live back home where I've never really gotten into a good groove. I could never put together a few months and honestly felt apart from the recovery community there... The good news is that I'm sober got some time some connection with a HP and some confidence. I'm still pretty bummed out that I've been thrown this curve ball but can see a silver lining as well. Anyone else go through this? Any tips or experience to give? I'm going to keep the ball rolling and try to recreate what I had down here in Florida but still am trepidatious. I love this sub and love you guys. Thanks.
----------immediate responses--------

My life was full of curve balls. What amazed me was that no matter where I went AA was there. I found a group of people who understood and who like me wanted to build a sober happy life. ..I understand your fears but it sounds like you have a solid foundation. You have a different attitude now which bodes well for seeing that recovering community in a different light. ..I'm looking at a framed saying given to me years ago by AA friends:..&gt; Serenity is not freedom from the story but.&gt; .&gt; Peace amid the storm.
Where in Fl?
Lancaster/Palmdale has what you found in FL. Dive in.
Kratom at low doses took all my craving for alcohol away and I walked into detox withdrawing on a .4 BAC. Remember the whole horrible thing too. If you can get through detox you can get through anything. ..Kratom does NOT fuck you up unless you abuse it. ..PM me if you have any questions. Good luck to you! Life is much better without alcohol.
