-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/873ots/revisited_alcohol_addiction_counselor_same_odd/

so i went back to see this alcohol addiction counselor again who i drifted away from in december because she told me she couldn't see me for two weeks in a row on dec 14th. (i did relapse in the  meantimenot to blame her) and it did not seem like she was really going to lets say paris on a huge trip but rather she just needed a break from... something. anyway went to her see again last week after a few months because i've been struggling again. after the session ends she says...once again.. i am going on spring break the office will be open but i am  basically not going to be available. i realize people do take big trips however i get strange vibes and it seems like the same all over again.  like she's casually mentioning some "spring break" that affects me in that i will have no counseler. i dunno it just seems insincere how she says it. like "oops well.. sorrrry i wont be here." not hey i have this trip planned...i can't make it in but will you be ok... etc. i mean i i came to her because i am in danger of dying of alcoholism! i need a counselor! o well thanks for reading.
----------immediate responses--------

thanks to whoever downvoted me. nice.
Sounds like she is probably a student doing an internship. The breaks she is taking are probably breaks in her semester. At least that's what  spring break  would signify to me...It doesn't sound to me like anything you need to take personally. In other words I don't get the sense from your story that she is doing this to slight you or avoid you. It's probably just the cycle of her school calendar.
You have reminded me of the reason I go to AA. Always open everyone understands and it is free. 
It's your dollar why not hire a new one?
I understand. I had some folks that I felt treated me badly. At the advice of my sponsor I just reminded my self the AA is full of sick people trying to get well. Low and behold after I got some sobriety under my belt I found that those people were not so bad. 5 year later I recognize the story I made up in my head was the problem not what they said.  ..Don't let anyone drive you out of AA. Find someone you can tolerate and latch on to them. ..Best of luck friend. I love the sober life and hope anyone that wants it finds it!
If you build support in aa you will not have this problem of not being able to get a hold of support. If you do the steps and develop a relationship with a higher power you will not have these problems. 
Ask for a referral. Get another counselor. 
