-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/87fbf6/would_it_be_against_the_program_to_sell_weed/

Now I don't mean to be disrespectful in any way by posting this but I'm running out of options.  I joined the program six months ago had 3 months originally &amp; after a couple of relapses I hit 30 days again last week.  I have lived by the program and it is changing my life I'm a forever grateful recovering alcoholic.  .Lately I've been getting super frustrated.  I don't have my license (DUI) &amp; I can't afford the fines to get it back.  I'm 21.  It's very hard to find a job in walking distance.  I didn't even smoke weed before I started the program but I sold it.  I was wondering if I could get input on if this is considered not doing the program legitimately or how this could affect my sobriety?  I hope nobody gives a thumbs down on this I'm genuinely asking for advice.  Thank you. 
----------immediate responses--------

When I first got sober I was broke evicted fighting for custody of my child. There were numerous ways to make money including a few illegals ones that seemed easier and faster. But my troubles are of my own making. As an alcoholic I can't manage my life which is why I have to do the steps and turn to God as my Director. I think if you look inward you'll already have an answer. 
The question here isn't about affecting your sobriety it is about affecting other people's sobriety. Offering another type of *addictive to some* drugs is the opposite of what we want to achieve when we go to a meeting. 100% sobriety. I understand you are trying to help and you have good intentions but I don't think that it's the right place to bring it up. Maybe discuss it with a few friends that you are comfortable with after the meeting. Some people are oddly defensive and very against it so be careful!! I wish you luck. Weed has helped me too :)
Thank you.  I'll talk it through with people.  I'm going delete this post on that call lol
Step 12 asks us to  practice these principles in all our affairs.  Your answer lies in there. 
Speaking from experience. It didn't work out. 
Bad Karma. 
Get a bike and then find a job. Seems like a simple solution to me. 
I don't smoke weed. It's not a good idea for me. I support other people's right to smoke weed however. All drugs for that matter. ..Is there a rule in AA about you being a bartender or an owner of a bar? No. ..Not sure where you live but in MA I could cultivate up to 12 plants and just sell customers tickets for $xx for the right to x amount of weed. All very legal. ..I would consider this to be an outside issue. AA has no opinion on outside issues. .
I don't smoke weed either.  Good input. Thank you!
Remember our preamble! "Alcoholics Anonymous is a fellowship of men and women who share their experience strength and hope with each other that they may solve their common problem and help others to recover from alcoholism." Perpetuating other people's relationship with psychoactive substances is not helping people to recover from alcoholism  
