-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/87gimm/still_have_major_anxiety/

Hey I am coming up on six months and I still have crazy anxiety. I grind my teeth due to anxiety and it's taking a toll on me. I have a sponsor pray everyday and on step 11. I'm gonna start trying to get sponsees soon but I still feel like I'm a mess. I'm doing everything suggested and my life is great on the outside but I'm still dying on the inside.  I feel like using a lot but I'll die if I relapse which would be terrible for my family. But I'm always in so much self pity and fear that I just want to die. What do you think ? 
----------immediate responses--------

My head didn't clear up completely until around month 9.  Just like having a baby!!! An old sober baby.
I'm nine months in and my anxiety and depression is the worst it's ever been in my life. 
Be honest with a health professional about your anxiety and depression.  ..In AA we help each other by sharing our experience of alcoholism.  And we have a marvelous program which enables us to quit drinking. But I don't expect AA to fix every other physical or mental illnesses I may have. 
AA is not a panacea- You might need external help to compliment your programme. You did not get sober to be miserable. Go to your doctor &amp; be honest with them. 
Once I made a majority of amends I started feeling unblocked and was aware even more of feelings those I labeled both good and bad. Once I started working with others I found a relief I sought in so many other places. Honestly it's incredible. .That being said AA isn't everything. Sometimes outside help is needed. My only suggestion is to now finish the steps and see how the actual action of the program- helping others- assists you. Whatever your decision it's not forever. God provides congrats on your sobriety working the steps and reaching out.
With continued step work my anxiety lessened progressively tho I still have peaks and valleys. At 6mo or so it was probably the worst I experienced in sobriety. Looking back at it I think I didn't yet know how to handle things sober in ways that were healthy. 
If you feel like using a lot there might be something wrong and you shouldn't be back to Step 1.  Do you have a solid Tradition 3?
I just want to second what some others have already said. My anxiety and depression were the worst at around my first year of sobriety. Someone suggested that I cut myself some slack because I was addressing life's issues (many of which were exacerbated by my drinking) for the first time without an anesthetic. At the 2.5 year mark something happened. It was almost like the light switch of my anxiety and depression was turned off. People say "things don't get better we do."  Well for me it wasnt just me getting better circumstances in my life started getting better too. Please continue reaching out and being honest. I traded my old problems in for a better set of problems. And I dont even consider them problems any longer they are simply issues. You are very brave and if you continue reaching out and doing the next right thing it WILL get better. At least that is my experience.
Try some 5htp and magnesium.  ..Both of these could help the anxiety a lot.  
