-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/884bjy/as_an_so_how_can_i_help/

My boyfriend had been drinking heavily for 3-4 years (2-3 half gals of liquor a week at its worst I think it was closer to 4 a week). He recently got sober and almost lasted 2 months. He relapsed last week. .He went to a couple meetings right before getting sober but he didn't like them he told me he couldn't relate because all these people had been years and years sober where he had just taken a couple shots before the meetings. Talking after his relapse we both agree its imperative he try to work out going to meetings now that he can relate a little better maybe get a sponser. I say work out because he works nights and its difficult for him to make meetings. The one he did like he would only been able to make once a week because of his work schedule..I would like to know how can I help him? Is there anything I can do as an SO? We're both going through this for the first time together him as an addict me as an SO of an addict..Any advice would be greatly appreciated. Thanks guys!.
----------immediate responses--------

HI! I'm a spouse of an alcoholic and also an alcoholic myself. The first thing is - he's going to have to want it for himself. I know this seems logical but sometimes people get sober for their family kids jobs etc but it truly has to be for oneself. I recommend seeking out some Al-anon meetings. This is for the people impacted by an alcoholic. My mom was an avid alanon member and despite my dad never getting sober she was able to cope and connect with other people whose loved ones were alcoholic. It sounds like you are supportive and that's key! If he isn't finding meetings he likes he just has to keep trying different ones. My schedule doesn't allow me to go to the ones I like the most but I make do. 
Hey there. This is a question for ALANON not AA.  ALANON is specifically designed for those who love/are in relationships with alcoholics. AA is for the alcoholic. .  I'd recommend heading over to r/ALANON and asking this very same question. .  Best to you. 
If he's drinking that much inpatient or outpatient treatment might be a good place to start for him.  You're surrounded by people at the same point you are and the "meetings" such that they are are geared to the newly-sober rather than a collection of people with mixed time in the program.  I did twenty weeks of intensive outpatient it was the key to why I was able to stay sober.  I don't attend a ton of meetings now due to my schedule (I usually do 3-4 a week) but early in my sobriety I was committed to 15 hours a week of either therapy or meetings and I don't know that I'd have made it without that structure.  I know you said his work schedule is a problem but as I heard it said many times:  unless you're sober everything else is gonna go away eventually anyway might as well make the sacrifice.  And certainly check into Al-Anon for you.  There's no way to be in a relationship with an alcoholic without us causing damage.  Best of luck and kudos to you for being proactive.
There are a lot of 6am meetings. That might be helpful. Many people go to a meeting after work.
Aside from encouraging him to keep going with his sobriety I would say giving him enough space to be uncomfortable with himself for a while would be about the only thing you can do right now. Early sobriety poses a lot of challenges and it can be very easy to  self-sabotage  so I would suggest being more aware of how you are engaging with him regarding A.A. and his recovery. Alanon can help a lot as well!
