-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/88fxxl/do_i_need_a_sponsor_to_get_my_1_year_coin/

I'm 10 months sober haven't been to AA since I was 18 got sober at 20 without rehab a sponsor or AA and I'm 21 now and have been wondering this for a while. I want to return to AA not because I'm struggling in my sobriety rather I need an excuse to leave the house and socialize. It's not healthy for my mental health to only get my source of human communication just through Reddit considering I'm a somewhat extroverted person so I'd thought I'd attend AA and some local politics meeting so I get a healthy dose of human contact and surround myself with intelligent people. I figure perhaps AA would be a great place to meet intelligent people and maybe some of their wisdom will rub off on me. ..Anyway do I need a sponsor to get that 1 year coin? The reason why I ask is cause I can see reasons why AA might not want to give out that coin without a sponsor because of drunks that want to act like they are sober around police family and friends so they bring up the coin to some how validate that they aren't drunk. Is this a thing or is this non sense? Can I get my 1 year coin without a sponsor? 
----------immediate responses--------

You can get your 1 year cheap without a sponsor. Also you can call yourself a member of AA as long as you have a desire to stop drinking. You're more than welcome to attend meetings and fellowship with other alcoholics...At the same time why not get a sponsor? Getting a sponsor teaches you more about AA so you can know what people are talking about at meetings. Also when fellowshipping it's good to be educated about the steps and what exactly they mean. Getting a sponsor really can't hurt in your situation especially since it sounds like you have some spare time on your hand. Going through the steps is a really unique experience you should try it. If you go through all 12 steps with a sponsor and find that it doesn't change your life then you can do without AA. But there's no harm in just giving it a try 
Absolutely. Coins aren't about validating sobriety to police or anything.. I've ever heard of that ever. Coins are so that newcomers Mets can see that there are real people going real amounts of time without drinking. It's important for someone brand new who can't fathom not drinking for a year to see another cross that milestone. .  I'd go get that dang coin. One year sober is a big big deal. 
You can definitely get the coin without a sponsor. Being sober for a year is an accomplishment and you deserve the reward...It sounds like you are smart and have given the idea of making new intelligent friends a lot of thought. Do you think finding a sponsor someone with more sobriety than you that knows the 12 Steps and knows how to be a kind encouraging person would be a way for you to make a new intelligent friend? ..You're right that getting out to meetings will help you meet people that understand the struggles and triumphs you've experienced in addiction and recovery. Getting in touch with people that can relate to your story and will listen to you might be the best thing in the world for you...Are there a lot of meetings in your area?
Sure. That chip won't keep you from getting a ticket though. Congratulations!
Near as I can tell the chip and the purpose of attending are totally unrelated.  Or am I missing something?  I mean ... it takes one meeting to go get a chip but one meeting wouldn't really count as socializing right?  Yeah you can do that but one meeting for a chip hardly counts as socialiation right?  Plus AA isn't a social club.  Sure we're social enough but the purpose is to help other alcoholics achieve sobriety.  The socialization skills and opportunities are a benefit indeed and the chips are kinda cool I guess ... anyway I'm kinda noticing that getting a chip and developing a social circle aren't exactly related is all...Oh and to answer your question no you don't need a sponsor to get a chip at every meeting I've ever been to that does chips.  Not all do and not all do chips at every meeting.  But I've never seen one that has any requirements for chips beyond you saying you have the time for that particular chip :)
Nope. Congratulations!
