-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/89mscm/spiritual_journey_question/

I have been sober in AA for 8 years and am recently starting to explore Buddhism. I've tried to force myself (and thought I believed at times) in an Abrahamic higher power (I was raised catholic). I have worked the steps and work them with others and am an active member of the program. However I often feel like a faker because I don't believe like those around me or those I sponsor (my sponsor is a pastor and most people in my meetings are Christians). ..I think I found something that will work for me and feels right. I know our book and steps say a higher power of our own understanding but I'm struggling with the lack of any deity in Buddhism. It makes me feel like I'm running on self and am different then everyone I'm close with in AA. I have started down this path before then ran away from it because I felt like  I was doing something wrong. Has anyone walked this path? If so how did you reconcile the need for a higher power for sobriety and serenity and the lack of one in Buddhism. What do you call your higher now? 
----------immediate responses--------

Darren LittleJohn has written on this subject you might find it helpful? Apologies I can't link on my phone. It is something I've bumped on in my own journey. Ironically it was reading Fr. Thomas Keating who helped me in this regard. He speaks of God as  'Truth ' or 'ultimate reality" not necessarily  a deity or a person. Its not an answer but it helps me to jump that hurdle. Something that Mark H used to say from the dao  might resonate for you. 	.Different paths along the way to the same goal - freedom from ..."Some places in this world are very hard to climb and people use animals. Each person can only ride one and each animal might have a different name. The riders go up the trail in different orders and they discuss their varying opinions about their experiences. They may even have conflicting opinions: one traveler may think the trip thrilling another may find it terrifying and a third may find it banal. ..At the summit all the travelers stand in the same place. Each of them has the same chance to view the same vistas. The donkeys are put to rest and graze; they are not needed anymore. ..We all travel the path of Tao. The donkeys are the various doctrines that each of us embraces. What does it matter which doctrine we embrace as long as it leads us to the summit? Your donkey might be a Zen donkey mine might be a Tao donkey. There are Christian Islamic Jewish and even Agnostic donkeys. All lead to the same place. Why poke fun at others over the name of their donkey? Aren't you riding one yourself? ..We should put aside both the donkeys and our interim experiences once we arrive at the summit. Whether we climbed in suffering or joy is immaterial; we are there. All religions have different names for the ways of getting to the holy summit. Once we reach the summit we no longer need names and we can experience all things directly." -..Deng Ming-Dao
I'm only 2.5 years in (and 2 years continuous this month) so I can't answer your question. Just commenting because it's something I'm also curious about. ..I don't believe in a God (as defined by my Christian upbringing i.e. a seperate entity that created everything and is all powerful). I also don't believe in a lot of things that relate to that conception of a god in the programme (e.g. praying or when people say it's between you and your higher power). I do sometimes wonder whether this will be a problem down the line. I can see the benefit in believing in one and it seems appealing to me but I just don't believe in it. I do have a lurking feeling that it might be real driven by a fear of 'what if it's true and I didn't believe in it?' But I attribute it to being told something adamently and repeatedly when young in the same way I worry about jynxing things if I say they'll happen. ..I've been into Buddhism and Zen over the last 1.5 years and have been studying it and to intensive retreats. The whole eastern philosophy perspective just resonates with me so much more. I'm not sure what I would point to as my 'higher power' within it though. I think what I get most from it is the awareness that what I'm experience will pass and the recognition that the suffering I experience is  mind made and at it's root is egoic fear and caused by identification with the ego. In that sense I don't think it's so much having a higher power as trying to let go of what's separating me from the power that's greater than myself (or more to the point my self). ..Curious to see what others feel about this. One thing I can say with certainty is that I have got sober in a split between London and New York where there's a lot of people who aren't Christian or Catholic and I personally know many people who have an eastern philosophy perspective within the programme and have many years of happy sobriety :)
Yeah not me but a good friend of mine is a pretty outspoken Buddhist AA. You want me to email him? He's kind of a public figure and really has his groove together.
I think it's a mistake to consider the beliefs of others in determining my own. Doing that didn't work for you last time. 
I got an email response from my friend. He writes:      ..Thx for the email .I love this stuff - but best might be to suggest checking out Kevin Griffin's book - One Breath at a Time - where he talks about bare awareness that can be a higher power -
