-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8aedhg/i_lost_my_dad_this_week_to_an_alcohol_overdose/

I got the call last Wednesday that my dad had passed.  He was 48. It was confirmed it was due to an alcohol overdose.  We believe it was an accident.  ..For as long as I knew my father he battled alcohol addiction. I saw him at his worst and I saw him at his best. He went to AA for years. For most of my childhood he struggled.  He really really struggled. On top of that he had Bipolar 1 and if you know both illnesses feed off each other and create havoc on one's mental health. If you are like my father I hope you continue to read ahead. ..I love and will still continue to love him so much. Grief is just love with no place to go. There are no words to describe my emotional state right now besides heartbroken. I find peace that he won't have to suffer anymore but I just want him here. I wanted him longer. ..I guess I am posting this just to give another point of view. Even if you don't think people care about you they do. People may not understand what you're going through. Some never will. I definitely do not know the struggles my dad faced but that never changed how much I loved him. ..People love you and just want you to be happy and healthy. Unconditional love holds no judgment. Sometimes people don't understand and they may not know how to take or even accept your addiction but that doesn't mean they don't love you. ..As I saw through him I know this illness is not easy and every day is and can be a battle. My father once called himself a failure yet he was highly intelligent loved twice in his life had 2 kids who are excelling and throughout all his struggles lived a fulfilling life.  I am so proud of him.  I wish I could tell him right now. ..I'm glad he won't have to suffer but I will miss him every day. My heart hurts. Life will never be the same. .
----------immediate responses--------

Please accept my sincere condolences.  It sounds like your dad was a good man who raised a good kid. 
I'm so sorry for your loss. Death is an extremely difficult thing to deal with. Thank you very much for sharing this it's deeply appreciated. 
My heart goes out to you. I'm sorry for your loss. 
I lost my dad to the disease of alcoholism 11 years ago.  I am now over 4 years in recovery myself.  I wish he were still here. I am so sorry for your loss. 
I am heartbroken for you.  Thank you for sharing here.  I also have bipolar and am in recovery 17 months.  It helps to know people can forgive you love you and are proud of you despite this disease and your mental illness.  I am so glad you shared some good moments together.  That's all we have.  My heart goes out to you and I hope you know how brave and strong you are.  What a beautiful heart you have.  
Very sorry for your family's loss.
Me and a good portion of my family are alcoholics and addicts and this disease is all too real. ..I'm sincerely sorry for your loss...I got news today that a close friend who was struggling in the halls of AA was taken from us by this demon. I feel your pain. 
Wow. That was beautifully written. I am very sorry to hear of your loss. I am 48 so this also resonates from that perspective. 
Sorry to hear! Keep your head up.
I'm so sorry. It's a vicious disease. Your post helped keep me sober today. 
Hiya I am so sorry for your loss. Our hearts go out to you and yours..
Losing a father is so hard. I feel so deeply for you and am so sorry. 
He's not gone he will always be with you watching over you. My condolences to your family and thank you your service to the fellowship as well as your fathers.
Sorry for your loss. Surround yourself with people who love you. 
