-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8ai77q/step_3/

I'm struggling with step 3. I've been sober for almost 3 weeks which is the longest I've ever been so I do give the program credit for that. I have a sponsor and I've been working in the big book. I'm working on step 3. My sponsor just had me read from the A B Cs through the prayer in how it works. .I've never been spiritual and I've never really believed in a god so for me to turn my life over to something and say I can't manage my life alone is very difficult for me. I've always been very successful in my professional career I've never lost a job from or had DUIs I just can't manage to control or stop my drinking. It has made me miserable depressed anxious and has put me in psych wards in the past. I have no problem turning my alcoholism over to a god but I'm struggling with the idea that my life can't run on self will or self propulsion. Some of my life can. Just not the staying sober part of my life. .I do plan on talking to my sponsor about this. Am I over thinking it? Thoughts? Advice. Thanks all. 
----------immediate responses--------

Have you read the part in the big book concerning atheism? 
I am an atheist and still found AA helpful. I know it is difficult to get your head around the God-stuff. Some people believe in God; some don't. I just try to accept that. ..The fellowship of AA is golden. Being in a room with people who understand gave me support and comfort. I learned a great deal from others. .
Step 3 for me didnt mean I had to believe in god. It meant I had to be willing to turn my life over to the care of a higher power of my understanding. Meaning I had to be willing to accept it..I wasn't religious or spiritual at first. Maybe simply use aa as a whole as your higher power at first. 
I also struggled with the concept of a  god  at first in the program but have talked and worked a ton with my sponsor on it. She basically asked me if I can move a couch up a flight of stairs by myself. Nope. Could a group of people do it? Yes. So there are powers greater than myself. That's it. You don't have to believe in a religious form of a god just believe that there are powers greater than yourself. It's all about shifting the mindset that you're the center of your universe. Most people can't get sober by themselves but they can with the help of others in AA. 
I found my higher power by adding "1+1 = 2" 2 is higher then 1 so therefore 2 is the higher power. So 2 alcoholics decide to stop drinking Bill W and the doctor through trial and error thier higher power showed them the difference in wisdom to stop drinking... hence AA. All it takes is 2 alocoholics to surrender to each other and to mutually agree that they are powerless over alcohol and willfully agree to support each other through a fellowship. That same fellowship is the higher power call it God Jesus buddah whatever... It's the same 2 is higher then 1 so 2 is higher.
First and foremost:  Congrats on your 3 weeks of sobriety!  That first 30 days can feel like a lifetime.  You're doing great.  As for the 3rd step I faced a lot of the same struggles as you are in early sobriety.  I came into the rooms as an atheist and most likely still am.  My sponsor told me that for my 3rd step I could simply make a commitment to completing steps 4-12 with honesty open mindedness and willingness.  That is what I did and I have remained sober and in the program for 4+ years now.  I did have what I consider  a spiritual awakening as the result of these steps' as promised in Step 12.  It has been a years long process and I am grateful for it.  I hope my experience helps you.  Good luck to you!
If things have gone the way you planned them out and you're happy with the results you've obtained that have brought you to this point then by all means carry on...If you'd like a shot at living better than you've experienced take the step without reservations.
Powerlessness has absolutely nothing to do with your external circumstances. When I first went to treatment I had never lost a job never had legal trouble my wife and son were still with me I owned my house and my car was paid off. My external circumstances were fine. My insides were fucked beyond belief. I was so ashamed of what the drugs had done to me that I looked for any excuse to not be around my loved ones and every single time I used I hoped that maybe this will be the dose that kills me. That's powerlessness...If your drinking has put you in psych wards that's powerlessness. If you are miserable that's powerlessness. If you want to change that you have to get hooked up to some power. I am of the belief  that the power I need to change is and always has been inside me. I was just blocked off from it because of my disease. Working the steps cleared that blockage for me and allowed my insides to match the outsides.
Look at these 2 statements again........*but I'm struggling with the idea that my life can't run on self will or self propulsion*...Here's why you can't run your life on self will.......*It has made me miserable depressed anxious and has put me in psych wards in the past*..Alcoholism is not a 'drinking 'problem that you can cut out or compartmentalise. Everytime you picked up that 'first ' drink you  like me were sober. I have a SOBER problem.  I tried to run my life on self self self....it always lead back to a drink. ..Talk to your sponsor - I wish you well. .
I had your exact same concerns/questions....I am an alcoholic..I have become convinced that left to my own I am defenceless to the fears selfishness resentments and ego making bad decisions becoming negative actions inevitably causing negative consequences in my life which over time will build up within me and either make me say "fuck it" and drink again or build up to such levels that i may only see suicide as a means of escape...Complete defeat ( look for that in the literature ) my words: I cannot control my drinking AND i cannot stay sober for long without wanting to kill myself or others THIS is the alcoholic's problem and the reason why we need to turn as much of our lives as we are capable of letting go of to god to handle because on my own - i make a mess out of it and make myself and others around me very unhappy drinking or not.
Step three says  we made a decision to put our will and our lives under the care of god as we understood him.  ..You dissect that and our will is our thoughts and our lives are our actions. When I get to aa I think bad so I act bad. I had a belief in something bigger than me I just wasn't sure what it was. I became willing to consciously change my thoughts and act better (do the next right thing)   It also says care of. My god is loving forgiving and wants me to be reasonably happy. If I ask for clear thoughts and to take right actions (and talk to my sponser about things) I am going to be alright. It also says that a decision can have little permanent effect unless followed by action.  I make a decision in three to have my thoughts and actions changed and learn how to do that fully in steps 4 and 5. Your mileage may vary. But it worked for me. 
Step 3 is a decision to do 4-12 the  first step of which is a personal house cleaning  ... if u could just turn ur life over to God in step 3 we would only have a 3 step program 
I have a difficult with this step as well anytime i see something tragic on the news i think to myself "way to go God doing great work up there.." ..yeah i know i am sick...I look at step 3 as doing the next right thing sometimes the choice is obvious most of the time i have to check my real motives. 
