-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8aj741/is_this_dishonest/

So I just got back in after a lengthy relapse about 4 months after being sober for a little over 3 months. All of this sobriety was during a 28 day inpatient program and in sober after living 5 hours away from where I live now I say this because I had to find all the meetings here and make new connections meet new people. My question is. I have being going through bad anxiety from the withdrawals after my long binger that abruptly quit and left to a meeting. Tonight will be my 3rd meeting in 3 days. Only my second day sober. How ever I smoked some resin from my bong this morning to help me with this anxiety and eat a meal since i haven't really ate since i stopped. When I introduce myself again today do I go back to say Im on day sober and perhaps tell them why? Or do I just not bring it up and make sure not to do it again?
----------immediate responses--------

this gets asked pretty frequently. some say yes some say no. ..you can confine your discussion to alcohol. or not. some AAs aren't trying to quit weed some are. ..Being free from all addictions is my goal. recently quit smoking cigs. ..
Why not try staying sober from now? It'll save you from making an adjustment down the road if you stick this time. Consider it part of beginning to get honest. 
This IS a common type of question my answer is "let YOUR conscience be your guide" if you think it was a step towards drinking and drug use and you feel guilty about it then be honest with someone and relieve the guilt...It really only matters to you but to you it matters a great deal because this could be the start of many a justified reason to use substances that will most likely hinder your recovery and sobriety...Listen to your conscience let it be your guide.
I would just tell everyone just in case. There's no shame we all have trouble. Just keep working on what you can do today and all the rest will sort itself out. Just tell the truth and don't keep secrets and you won't have any problems from it.
Please don't take this harshly my friend. AA is a program of abstinence from all mood and mind altering drugs (this includes smoking weed). ..If you want to keep burning that is your affair - but that doesn't make you sober that means you quit drinking alcohol...To have a spiritual experience like the Big Book talks about I have to be clean and sober in mind body and spirit. Whatever your path is that is your choice and your affair- Love and Light to you my friend. I wish you the best 
Up to you of course maybe tell just a friend at the coffee machine. Ouch I will never forget my 11 days of withdrawals. Sleepless nights muscle aches edginess. Ugh. Now you gotta go through all that again. Sorry 'bout that. But hey you can do it. Git back on dat hoss! or wagon I suppose. BTW I don't think smoking weed is the kiss of death... but you know it ain't a terrific idea right? Drop that asap it's no good.
I was addicted to pot so I would say yes. But maybe your situation is different 
Bring it up. Start fresh. You will feel better. You are alive and sharing and doing great. That is my humble opinion. 
I would highly suggest getting rid of the bong
