-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8biqzv/sponsor_resentment/

I'm 3 years sober and I've been struggling on and off with a resentment toward my sponsor. I've written it out and read it to her sponsor (a couple months ago now) but it keeps coming up. I'm so frustrated - I am grateful to my sponsor she brought me through the 12 steps and helped save my life and I don't want to change sponsors. But I'm so resentful and I can't seem to turn it over completely. I'm looking for advice for anyone who's gone through something similar. ..It seems to center around: she hates me she doesn't want to spend time with me she thinks I'm annoying/lame she's judging me. She's sponsoring two other women and I'm jealous of them. I feel like she likes them more spends more time with them is kinder to them saves them seats in meetings but not me. ..After I first read the resentment to HER sponsor I was directed to talk to my sponsor to ask if we could meet more often. I did it went well we set up a day to meet weekly. But after one week she was unavailable. And when I tried to talk to her about it she kind of lost her temper at me. There had been a misunderstanding but she also said I should only be meeting her to read inventory or amends. It made me feel so embarrassed that I'd misunderstood and I was confused and resentful - I see her go out to pizza with HER sponsor almost every week I see her find her other sponsees before meetings to touch base with them. But for me I feel like she expects me to chase after her only approach her if I have inventory. It makes me feel rejected and awkward. ..Last week we had plans to meet and she was almost 30 min late. She texted me 10 min before we were supposed to meet saying she was 'almost there." She barely apologized once she got there. I get it - she was busy there was traffic I should be grateful for the time she gives me and we had plenty of time to go over the stepwork anyway. But it was just one more thing that fueled this insane resentment in my mind. ..I understand a lot of this is delusional and the same character defects that have plagued me my entire life coming out but I can't seem to change my perspective. I sense that I'm over-relying on her   I'm 3 years sober I have sponsees and right now life is good work is good &amp; I'm engaged!   so why do I feel so desperate for validation from my sponsor? I really want to work through this I really don't want to change sponsors. Has this happened to anyone else?..Thank you
----------immediate responses--------

Well. It sounds to me like your an alcoholic. .I'm about you. But my mind will tell me that a certain person dislikes me regard of a ton of objective evidence to the contrary. But I'll be too delusional to see it. Which is all the more conducive to my disease. No one likes me better go drink or use about it. It's not true but that's what my mind will tell me if I let it...But if this is more real than imagined then get a new sponsor. I wouldn't want a sponsor who refuses to see me outside of 4th and 9th step work.
I agree with u/nowayjesus1..And you yourself has said a lot of this can be delusional...Humility is the ability to see things how they actually are not how our biased brains perceive them..."She hates me": short of her flat out expressing this to you (not somebody else that you hear it from) there is no way for you to know if this is true or not. .."She doesn't want to spend time with me": Sounds like you are not satisfied with being in contact for just step work. Perhaps you are looking for a different type of relationship?.."She thinks I'm annoying/lame": Again short of her actually expressing this to you there is no way for you to possible know what she thinks..."She's judging me": See above..."I'm jealous": Your character defect coming out. You are afraid these two other women are taking away from your relationship with your sponsor...The only course of action for your own peace of mind is to talk to your sponsor about it. She can either confirm your feelings as real or imagined. ..Good luck..
There's a really good chapter in the book Living Sober - "Availing Yourself of a Sponsor" - in the last paragraph it talks about "flying the nest"- It's really good advice...I see my sponsor every once in a while. I moved when I was 7 year sober so he now lives 100 miles away. I'll ring him up maybe once or twice a year. I've got sponsees of my own and I have service positions at intergoup region and national levels  so I talk to plenty of other people and grow spiritually in my Homegroup where I'm really close with one or two of the other homegroup members. My sponsor will always be my sponsor just like Bill W considered Ebby T his sponsor all his life but Ebby T drank when Bill was 6 months sober. Bill didn't put him on a pedestal he took up Ebby's baton and carried his message to the world. 
Talk with your sponsor directly about how you feel. Use "I" statements instead of "You did this" statements. If things don't clear up get a new sponsor...Most people don't have the same sponsor forever. That's OK...Sorry for the advice. I'm typing in Mobile and need to be concise.
You're not her child and it appears doubtful that you are her friend. She helped you earlier and now she's giving her care and time to others. The people ahead of you that she's known longer count more than you because she may have gotten sober with some of them. Those newer count more than you because they are fresh and in need of answers that will allow them to live sober...You've little to offer other than your desire to have her all to yourself. She may have already been someone's hostage in the past and may not have enjoyed the experience. 
Hard to give you suggestions if we've never met. You might seek therapy because a lot of us have trauma in the past that we're trying to recreate and act out with other people. Freud called it repetition compulsion. We try to call people "trauma survivors" and not label them with personality disorders. 
