-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8c6e2x/anxiety_and_depression_kicking_in/

Here's my long story short. ..23y/o male started drinking at 19. Everything was kept in moderation until about last year. Started drinking heavily was blacking out every Saturday. I lost control and started drinking every day. Got a DUI out of it at only 22. Thought I was gonna stop after the DUI but it only made matters worst. I drink every day now. My job is next to a liquor warehouse so on my 30 min breaks I'll go get drunk. I'm surrounded by heavy drinkers. I don't get wasted every day but come weekends I binge drink and go out. So much money thrown away. ..The last drink I had was Saturday April 7th. Went out with co workers after work and blacked out. ..Clocked into work Sunday around 4pm. Around 6pm had an anxiety attack. I had NEVER had anxiety before so I panicked didn't know what it was (thought it was a heart attack) and called 911. Calmed down a bit got sent home and then took the next day off. ..Every since April 7th (my last drink) I've been super anxious. The second day I was extremely fatigued. The third day I started having really bad nightmares. 4th day was better but the anxiety is still there. 5th day was today and I'm super paranoid. Anxiety is toning down but I still feel a lump in my throat. ..This is not worth the drinking. I'm going at least a month without drinking because it's simply not worth all this. I have never in my life struggled with anxiety. Anxiety is a monster. I wouldn't wish it on my worst enemy.  I went from having a beer or two every single day for the last couple months to being sober 5 days. I think my brain is wacko but I'm not experiencing tremors or hallucinations or anything like that. Just ANXIETY. ..If anyone can relate PLEASE let me know. Talk to me I feel like I'm alone with this one. I wanna go at least 30 days clean. I owe it to myself and to my body. Got some lab work done and so far no damage to my liver or pancreas. I don't want this to become a problem. Was really craving a beer today but I'm scared to drink. ..Is there anyone out there going through this? You're not alone. Best wishes everyone. Stay strong guys. One day at a time. ..
----------immediate responses--------

Sorry I can't stay but I just wanted to reach out &amp; let you know I heard you.   you are not alone- anxiety is a bitch. Sounds to me like you know what you need to do. You  do deserve a good life so start today. Can you talk to someone IRL?   A doctor or therapist about the anxiety ? Take care of yourself  you're gonna get through this - everything passes soon.  
Anxiety is a symptom of alcohol withdrawal. It is recommended to seek medical treatment or detox when quitting alcohol if the physical symptoms are too much. Good luck.
You're definitely not alone. I had anxiety before my drinking got out of control. When I quit I realized that the alcohol made it worse but cutting it out didn't mean that all my problems would be instantly solved. At 4 1/2 months sober there are still days where my anxiety takes over entirely and I feel like I can't function. The serenity prayer can help when I need to calm down. A mantra focusing on my breathing taking a few minutes to assess my body and figure out what's going on all help pull me out of panic. Stay strong and don't be afraid to ask for help. Bring it up in a meeting (you won't be the only one dealing with it) talk to your doctor confide in a close friend voice your worries here. We can't do this alone. Like you said one day at a time. 
I highly recommend doing some research and checking to see if there's a springstone detox near you. I'm sober 7 months and I work at a springstone detox center to give back to others going thru detox. Better to be in a medical center to treat withdrawal symptoms. 
You're in good hands literally everyone in active alcoholism gets anxiety and depression...The good news is that there is a solution..Take yourself to a meeting to find out how to do the steps...The steps aren't really about stopping drinking- well the first one is. But the other 11 are about how to manage our depression and anxiety in a productive and healthy way...Check it out. I know the steps mention (God) but even atheists can do the steps I am an atheist and it works for me. Don't be scared you have everything to gain. 
drinking causes a lot of stress and anxiety. It also ruins your sleep. ..It is why people stop drinking. ..Good luck. 
Thank you so much for sharing your story! I have been sober about 3 1/2 Years know. When I finally stopped drinking I had already had bouts of anxiety but it hit an all time high. My anxiety got so bad my hair was falling out. I knew I needed to stop drinking though and my doctor said I couldn't take Xanax because it triggers the same part of my brain alcohol does. The only thing I found that works for me is physical exercise and meditation/breathing exercises. There are tons of apps that can help but it's been the only thing I have found that works. ..It doesn't mean the anxiety goes away right away though. Part of the reason I drank was it stopped these anxiety attacks by numbing me out. So now I just have to find an alternate. When I get anxiety now I let someone I love know so I am not alone then I do breathing and meditation. It works!!! My heart slows down my head calms and the feeling of nausea and impending doom subsides. It takes practice and unfortunately anxiety doesn't go away instantly but with practice you can fight off the attacks. ..Sending you good thoughts and vibes. Early sobriety is hard and even harder with panic attacks but I am living proof you never have to drink again if you don't want....even with anxiety 
Try kratom
I suffered from horrific anxiety  I drank alone at home. And couldn't even leave the house sober I had to get drunk to deal with the anxiety. Now I work with a doctor go to AA work the steps. My anxiety left me slowly but it left me when I did the 12 steps and go to my doctor. I had vicious anxiety now I speak in front of people in AA.
