-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8c7z4y/is_aa_suitable_for_a_committed_atheist/

I think I've made the step of acknowledging that I have an issue with alcohol and am looking for groups that can help in my previous line of work I've heard lots of mixed stories about AA some saying that they're none judgemental and really supportive and others that paint them as overly religious. Whilst I have respect for anyone's beliefs I'm an atheist and would struggle with bringing religion into what I'm guessing is going to be a protracted recovery. 
----------immediate responses--------

I'm a dedicated atheist myself and I'm still figuring out my higher power. In my home group the  God  of your own understanding ranges from regular Christian God to  Group Of Drunks  to  Good Order and Discipline . One identifies a tree as their higher power. So whatever works for you i guess. If you did find yourself in a group that's judging your higher power find another group.
I very often heard  don't worry about the God stuff if you're new  and that worked for me. There is also a chapter in the AA book called  We Agnostics  it's a great read. AA does not decide who or what your higher power is and is lacking the religious aspect of belief. Your higher power could be your community the AA fellowship or a door knob.
Thanks I know I'm procrastinating and the only reason I can really give is that I have no idea who the part of me that doesn't drink is me and that guy haven't really been on speaking terms since I was 14
Yes.  Your gonna come across the God word a lot and you'll need to deal with that.  There are many suggestions so stick with it.  Obviously do the atheist and agnostic meetings first...Well done on realizing recovery will be protracted. 
Last night's meeting topic was Spirituality and the 25 shares covered the possible spectrum. It was clear to me that spirituality and religion are opposites in most important aspects. I was pleased that none got specific about what they believed was true for them or specific about what they didn't believe as that's when I tune out. Nothing's more boring than that...If you do eventually go you can choose to talk or not. If you decide to talk spare the people there the list of what you don't believe is true for yourself. No one cares. Talk about what has brought you to the point of attending an AA meeting.
If you think you are more atheist than alcoholic you'll decide AA is both religious and doesn't work.  If you're more alcoholic than atheist you'll realize AA is a spiritual program of action that does work if you work it :)
Unfortunately in my experience it wasn't until the pain of alcoholism drove my willingness to be able to accept spiritual principles and eventually have a connection with my HP. As far as I can tell there is not any way to work a spiritual program of action without some basis of spirituality to work with. You dont even have to believe in what you're praying this works regardless. Try pretending.
Everyone here has given great advice but I also want to add that it really depends on the group. In my home town there is an AA group that is atheist/agnostic and they attract a lot of younger crowds.
Yes
I'm an atheist and still found AA helpful. 
 The only requirement for AA membership is a desire to stop drinking.  -3rd tradition 
Yes. Honestly you just have to show religious people the same type of respect and acceptance you'd like to receive. I don't want to be judged for being atheist; I have to remember not to judge people who subscribe to a traditional sense of a higher power. And yes some groups will feel more comfortable to you than others. Keep going and you'll find your people. It's worked for me for 22 years. 
AA is a spiritual not a religious program. By spiritual I mean the non-material values of human beings that transcend material needs: honesty compassion empathy courage beauty ethics goodness etc. If you cannot be honest AA will not work for you...As to the god question I have been clean and sober in AA for almost 40 years and I still cannot make myself believe in fairy tales. My higher power is that creative power that began and maintains the universe. About 13.7 billion years ago give or take a few weeks a point of matter about the size of a pencil tip contained the amount of energy present in a fair-sized galaxy and something reached critical mass and tipped it into expanding rapidly from which came our universe and everything in it. That power is still evident today. Whatever that power is that kicked over that last bit that started that expansion--that's what I call my higher power for which the word "God" is a metaphor. It is more akin to electricity or gravity than some mythical sadistic being that is keeping tabs on me and will send me to burn in hell forever for not loving him enough. I resist trying to anthropomorphize that power even though I know doing so makes it easier for some people to understand and use. ..In AA believing in a higher power is a matter of choice: we ultimately just make up our minds that we're going to believe in one no matter what the evidence is one way or another nor whether we think there really is one (BB p. 53). If you're going to take the steps of AA and get the full benefits of doing so there is no way around it. There are ways to take the steps that don't include a higher power but the results--while effective to a limited extent in my experience--are not the same and they are not AA no matter what their defenders claim. The AA program is designed to help you find and use a higher power to solve your problems. It is not a mind-training program nor a way to form good habits to keep you from drinking nor group therapy to work out your neuroses. I don't always like it nor do I always enjoy the degree of honesty it sometimes take in order to have a successful outcome but it works better than anything I've tried before or since I got clean and sober..
Fellow atheist here...gotta admit it is hard hearing the God talk but it is much harder living in active addiction.  Listen to the similarities.  Best to you!
We Agnostics the chapter in the AA book referenced above and what everyone will point to as gospel (pun intended) is available online for free. Why don't you check it out see what you think. ..Myself and atheists I talk to get a chuckle because it comes across as very condescending - which is probably not what they were going for. ..I will let you make your own judgement. ..AA is a large unstructured group of "volunteers" so what you heard is correct: there will be some who are non-judgemental and supportive and others not so much. You can use the famous "doorknob" as your higher power / god and some will tell you you must "hit your knees" and pray to the doorknob. I ignore them. ..
I am myself a Christian but I chafe more at fundamentalism and superstition than at atheism so I guess I developed a way of accommodating varieties of belief since my youth (i.e. listening to other people's whack theologies like  I believe everything happens for a reason  ) and not rolling my eyes.  .  .AA doesn't care what you believe or even whether you believe just what you *do*   although yes that can include things that may appear as religious (e.g. prayer).  .  .David Foster Wallace's novel *Infinite Jest* has a section on AA (especially as borne out in Boston) and in addressing this particular question runs through a huge variety of  God  conceptions many mutually exclusive that got people sober. I remember one character an anarcho-punk or something whose Higher Power was  Satan.   .  .Also if it helps at all the phrase  Higher Power  is in the entire Big Book twice I think. Whereas the term  a power greater than myself/ourselves  or just  greater power  is used something like 23 times (I'd have to check my stats and can't right now but it's something like that). So think horizontally rather than vertically/hierarchically. Just so long as a) it isn't you and b) it has more power to keep you sober than you have heretofore had by yourself. 
The meetings I attend which are relatively progressive in Massachusetts that said whenever I share on HP or faith etc in discussion it never fails that when finished Ill be approached by Big Book thumpers and devout followers of religion...I am very polite to these people but they just cant seem to help themselves with giving me unsolicited advice and a lecturing i didnt subscribe to...It's gotten so bad that if I am in a meeting now and its my turn to share i just state "Based on my experience on this topic i am choosing to not share because I don't enjoy people forcing their opinions on me after the meeting."..I usually receive some scoffs or confused looks but its better than being cornered against my will during the "fellowship." 
Was gonna chime in with my own opinion but it looks like you got a good spread of info here. ..Instead I'll send you to someplace to learn more about the topic in general https://aaagnostica.org/
AA is suitable for anyone &amp; everyone that meets the requirement for membership. The requirement for membership is a desire to stop drinking. The rest you figure out as you go along. There's an entire chapter in the AA big book titled "Chapter to the Agnostic." It's understood there's a difference between atheist and agnostic but you might find it enlightening. More importantly meetings that focus on atheists are not unheard of. With a bit of research you should be able to find one. In the unlikely event you can't find one in your area perhaps you can set a goal of someday being a pioneer in your area and starting one. 
Agnostic/atheist here. Someone told me use the acronym Good Orderly Direction when god is mentioned. That has helped me. I acknowledge I need help and so I can give things over to good orderly direction for assistance. And I concentrate on the god as I know him which is G.O.D. to me. Where I am located they end all our meetings holding hands and saying the our father. I struggled at first with this and now just hold hands as a sign of solidarity with my fellow alcoholics and close my eyes and stay quiet. I now am looking at  the chanting of the prayer as just a peaceful comfort. I make AA what I need it to be. Don't let that one word keep you from going to a meeting. 
Yes. My sponsor is an atheist. I know several others. 
Hell yeah it is!
If by committed you mean you need to debate or challenge the beliefs of others then you may have a hard time.  On the other hand it works for me - agnostic who learned to respect those who have beliefs.  No problems not of my own making once I learned this 
You can believe in  such conceptions as Creative Intelligence Universal Mind or Spirit of Nature. 
I am an atheist with 5 years of godless sobreity. I'd be happy to help in any way I can. 
Yep; there's a reason we use the term  higher power  instead of the God. Even an atheist can believe in higher power..The big book deals with this issue directly and I found it very helpful. From what I understand if a higher power is too difficult for you to imagine consider thinking of AA as a higher power. It's a group of people that have achieved something you've found impossible to do so in a sense it is a higher power. Accept that without the help of an entity outside yourself you cannot hope to meaningfully change.
I'm a non-cognitivist. Get over yourself. I did. This shit works and you don't have to accept much of the baggage people seem to think is required...Acknowledge you're powerless. Admit you need help. Accept there is shit outside of your control. That's what I did.
Hey! Glad you are here! Ok so I often think about it this way: we have very limited understanding of our own psyche. Ergo much of it is analyses of theory. Yet our unconscious self such as our ego is a paradox. Because it is an illusion Yet our defintion of who we actually are is very real to ourselves. Is this illusion of self not something beyond our measure of logic and reasoning then? If this exists to me while it drives my choices and who I am. I have to disolve this ego. This is how I choose to define my higher power.  Consciousness...
It *really* depends on the group/meeting. AA as a whole is totally fine for atheists as long as you're able.to accept the spiritual side of it. The word God means something different to almost every alcoholic in the room and there is a chapter specifically for agnostics and atheists in the big book. It's all up to you!
Take what you like and leave the rest. I accept that I can't change any other person so aim not to be bothered by what anyone else says or believes. I do better some days than others. I do tend to be bothered when someone tries to say what should or shouldn't be discussed or how a meeting should be run. I need to work on that character defect of mine.
I'm am atheist with almost 5 years sober. I have a sponsor I work the 12 Steps in my life I sponsor others I'm involved in service at the local district and state level. ..The god stuff was seriously problematic for me when I got to AA. In fact it chased me away in 2008 and 2012. In 2013 I was desperate enough to talk to AA members about it   specifically I got a sponsor and takes to him about it. He suggested that after meetings I go up to people that mention god in the meeting and ask them about their idea of god. I found all sorts of surprising answers... ..- "My higher power is reality / the natural world / the universe" .- "My god is my own personal thing. It keeps me sober but it might get you drunk so you've gotta find your own higher power.".- "I say 'god' in meetings because its a common convenient word. Really I don't even like Higher Power. I prefer Higher Principles which is what AA has taught me to live by." .- "Really god is just an acronym for Group of Drunks or Good Orderly Direction. The important part was that I stopped trying to play God in my own life and listen to the experience of others." ..What I found from taking this suggestion was that so many people in AA had a very different idea of what "god" meant and much of these weren't big bearded sky daddy stuff. Sure there were Christian responses too. It'd be weird if there wasn't. But the Christian respondents weren't what I expected - they didn't try to convince me their idea was the right one of that I needed to believe like they did. It was a really mind-openning experience. I'd assumed AA was a Christian conspiracy to recruit people at their most vulnerable. I was quite wrong. ..There's a lot of room for atheists in AA and I'm not even close to the only one. I know many. The steps can be worked without believing in a god. ..I'm open to questions if you have them too. ..The UK AA office has this pamphlet. The US AA is voting on adopting this latest this month. ..https://www.alcoholics-anonymous.org.uk/download/1/Library/Documents/Literature%2520Downloads/3267%2520The%2520God%2520Word.pdf
Yep...I'm an atheist. HP = Universe/Earth/Nature. Those are all greater powers than myself. I do not control those things or other people. Everything is literally connected by spacetime. That is spiritual to me. It is common sense that you reap what you sew. That is karma. ..I find that many spiritual beliefs that are pretty important for recovery do not require sacrifice of the integrity of my commitment to the truth and science and my rejection of religion. I don't hold a resentment toward religion as a whole like I used to but I still reject it and think it's important to realize that it probably does objectively more harm than good in this day and age. That being said there are prayers or concepts (from Christianity) in AA that I find to be useful and that bring peace to my mind. The Lord's Prayer the prayers for many of the steps and the serenity prayer among others provide calming or useful ideas that I do not take literally when fantastical. I see them as metaphors for concepts I need to remember to stay sane and sober. ..Best of luck. 
In my area they have a meeting just for athiests
AA has a way of making you challenge your core beliefs... you will find that your mind will open to a great many things...Worrying about society's perception of AA isn't going to help you. Go to a meeting and see what it's like for yourself...Also not all meetings are created equal. You may find a meeting that is really good and one that is really bad. Finding a good meeting is a little like dating you have to try a few out ;)
Thanks for all the advice peeps. Going to my first meeting tonight not gonna lie I'm nervous as fuck I'm gonna be stepping into the unknown and there's little voices at the back of my head telling me I don't need to go and can stop on my own but I know I can't. Keep getting weepy and I'm pretty sure I'm rambling so I'll sum up with its gonna be hard but hard isn't impossible. Wish me luck. 
