-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8cpwcq/surrendering/

 Hi Reddit I'm fairly new here and am seeking some sage advice. So a little bit about myself  ( excuse my grammar)- I have recently quit using all substances and am 95 days sober. I have been a serious poly user for about 8 years with benzos and coke being my DOC. I moved from the midwest to SoCal in January to seek help to get off the benzos for good (first time attempting to after 6 years prescribed 4mg a day) and am in sober living now after completing rehab. The entire time in rehab I have been plotting my potential relapse with beer. I've used my reason for coming to rehab (benzos) as an excuse to drink again because I don't intend on using narcotics ever again. I've voiced this desire and quickly learned to shut my mouth about it because  the affirmation  I've been seeking has been shut down immediately by the fellowshipwhich. I tell myself  "I'm not that bad of an alchy"  and "I'm an IPA conneseur" so I don't fit the mold. The evidence  of alcoholism speaks through my past though and this frame of thinking. I'm really struggling with completely surrendering and letting go of this reservation.  I know deep inside I will gain serenity through surrendering and working the steps but the thought of never drinking again is frightening.  I need to quit thinking like this and take it one day at a time.   Has anybody else on here struggled with this issue with some tips? Thanks...
----------immediate responses--------

Hey there! ..I went into rehab in February 2016 thinking the exact same things. Had no plans to quit drinking however I wanted to stop doing coke and benzos. I found it impossible to surrender to the fact that I wasn't going to drink for the rest of my life. Now that term 'the rest of my life' really stuck with me. It seemed so daunting. Even after treatment I still had that idea that I couldn't give it up and I was wary of voicing that idea as I held shame around it and thought others wouldn't respond well. Every time someone mentioned relapsing at meetings it would go through my head 'maybe I just need to relapse myself see what happens'. ..I found the biggest relief was in finding the courage to voice those circling ideas to my sponsor and the fellowship. It isn't as uncommon as you might think. Eventually I was able to find similarities in what people at meetings were sharing I stopped looking back on what 'wasn't so bad' about my drinking and was able to conclude that holy shit I actually am an alcoholic. Not to say that the thoughts didn't come and go but they for sure became less frequent. From all experience I've had working with others if you go back to drinking eventually you will go back to your drug of choice. Sure being sober the idea of doing coke again seems far out of reach but after a bunch of beers it seems like a much better idea. ..Even with all those recurring thoughts such as yours I am over two years sober and I have not had to look back since going to treatment. If I have any suggestion its keep going to meetings talk about these thoughts you won't be judged and it could save your life. Just each time you wake up focus on the day at hand plan to do something for your recovery go to a meeting have coffee with someone sober anything. All you have is one day if you're diligent about your actions for that one day they start adding up and your life will become infinitely better. ..Hope any of this helps! .Cheers :)
It's amazing how we can rationalize anything.  Think about how crazy it sounds to break the 95 day streak and jeopardize your sober living situation.  .I'm struggling heavily not to drink I slipped all last week! so I'm definitely a hypocrite and an asshole.  I feel terrible about it now. The thought of stopping forever is scary and depressing..I feel deeply for your situation.  I think these same thoughts.  To be honest I'm not sure I want to quit 100%  what helps me is thinking about how I will surely die If I keep on like this.  Good luck to you.
Breaking the cycle of drinking to being hungover and repeating is hard but so worth the effort.  It is called recovery for a reason. One day at a time. Best wishes. 
Here's the thing as soon as we pick up anything our guard is then down. Maybe not today or tomorrow but odds are good you'll go back to your preferred drug. Now I say that having been around more than just a few 24 hours. Can you get away with it  dunno is it worth the gamble. 
Take it one day at a time. ..Reading *Under the Influence* by Ketchum and Milam helped me understand and accept my alcoholism. 
This thought process is so common in recovery and I really wish it was discussed more.  My primary addiction was alcohol.  I'd been sober a year and we went to Amsterdam.  I thought  it's Amsterdam! and I'm an alcoholic not an addict'.  But see those are different names for the exact same disease.  It opened a door and over time I went from substance to substance and once again this disease had me.  Same behaviors same consequences different substance.  I stoped the day before I was going to pick up a drink told my sponsor reset my sobriety date.  My friend (her favs were opioids then heroin) ended up drinking custody of her kids away.  We have a thinking problem where our minds are looking for anything to escape.  That's normal.  But by talking about it with a group your sponsor sober friend you can work through those thoughts and take away their power.  And thinking  I can never have that/do that again' thinking makes it worse.  I always say just for today and that really makes it easier.  I cannot handle my entire futures sobriety right now but I can handle todays.  And with help you can too.  I wish you luck!
" The thought of never drinking again is frightening" My suggestion is to start there man. Talk about that. Listen to what people have to say. Say that out loud in a room and you'll see every head nod for sure. You're not alone there. Everyone who takes recovery serious gets scared as fuck at one time or the other. Life is scary sometimes and It's hard to let go of what you know man I get it. I relapsed in the beginning more times than I can count for that very reason. In my experience recovery isn't linear. Lots of detours lots of circles lots of pain and growing and everything in between. Keep being brave keep moving forward. Wake up and say "Just today" . Just do it an hour or even a second at a time. And talk to be people about how you are feeling.  Posting here is growth. Rehab is growth. Desiring serenity is growth. You're killing the game dude. Be super gentle with yourself and keep going. I need you. These guys and gals need you. We need a present and sober chiefsdelaval living his/her best life and loving yourself well. It's gonna get better. Message me anytime you need to talk.
