-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8cs6oa/challenging_sponsee/

I'm at a loss. ..I've been working with this sponsee for maybe a year. ..There's been multiple relapses but she keeps calling and doing the work - grudgingly but she does it eventually...But there's been a few occasions where she's said some pretty hurtful things. ..It's obvious she's coming from a very broken place and she's a master at what I think of as  victim isolation -  as in I push everyone away and then live in a world of 'poor me I'm so alone no one understands'. ..My trouble is  I'm not sure how to deal I have a health condition that is exacerbated by stress and this is becoming stressful. It also means that I have limited energy later in the day but that's the only time she seems to be able to call. Which ends up counter productive to the work. ...I don't like to think of quitting on someone in pain - who is turning up but I can't go on like this for much longer. It's taking up too much head space. ..There's a lot of control stuff coming up and that (to me) is the opposite of surrender. ...I've started going to al-anon meetings in addition to speaking with other members and spoken with my sponsor who thinks it might be time to let go...
----------immediate responses--------

Just remember that she is not your failure. Alcoholics are broken people and we often continue our self serving ways especially when we first start our journey. I have to be mindful today because being manipulative has worked for me in the past and I am fearful of falling back on old behaviours. I would agree with uour sponsor and move on. The sponsor-sponsee relationship needs to work for both parties and not be onesided..I wish you luck and serenity.
I think I'm this sponsee far too often..
i wouldn't assume people are intending to be "poor me no one understands boo hoo" type people. alcoholism is a mean bastard. people are just trying to survive.
If slippers are still trying to stay sober I continue trying to help them because doing so helps me. They eventually will either fade off or get sober. I feel my obligation is to stay honest with them and be available but I have no emotional investment in their outcome...We buried one (37f) recently who once had a 3 year stretch of sobriety but for the last 10 years used AA to get the heat off between drinking periods. Half measures people get what their hands call for.
Your sobriety comes first. If you're not sober you can't be much good to her or others. It sounds to me like you gave her too much of a leash. I'll tell my sponsees if they relapse that if they relapse again they'll be looking for a new sponsor. Not as a punishment but as a change of scenery. Loving detachment is surely something you've heard in Al Anon by now. Time to lovingly detach from this one.
A simple "this relationship clearly isn't producing the desired result and has become counterproductive. At this point I think I am unable to be of much help to you and I think you'd have better results with another sponsor" should do the trick. Certain sponsee/sponsor relationships can become toxic.
You could be doing her a favor. Maybe there's someone more compatible out there for her but neither of them know it yet. Have her start looking for someone else who has what she wants and then thank her for allowing you to be of service and show her love as she transitions to a new sponsor. 
