-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8d2l3p/helping_people_you_dont_like/

there aren't many people i don't like really. but there are just a few members who really make my blood boil and i have a hard time just letting it go...any tips with this? they call me and i really struggle with answering sometimes.
----------immediate responses--------

I have people like that too. I know it's cliche advice and overstated but remember. We are sick people. Sometimes they can be mentally ill and cause them to be difficult to deal with. And if they are just simply an asshole remember they suffer the same disease as you do.  ..Try to see past their flaws and see the message they may have. I do this at times. When someone speaks up in a discussion meeting that I can't stand I just forget how much they drive me crazy and pretend I've never met them. It takes some dropping of ego sometimes but it helps see past it and hear what they have to say. Doing this I've gotten good messages from people I never would have expected getting them from and it has helped my recovery. ..And the ultimate cliche. Remember that them making your blood boil doesn't hurt them. Resentments and hatred over a person only harm you. If you hold onto a hot ember it's not the ember that gets burned. ..Hope some of this helped. :)
And I missed the last part of tour original post. When people I can't stand call me I always answer or call right back. Because they could need my help. No matter what my personal opinion is this is a program fought in numbers and it's my responsibility to take the hand of the sick and suffering that reach out to me. Helps them and helps me and my spiritual condition. 
Wow that was so thoughtful and helpful...Love the idea of pretending like you don't know the person while they share in a meeting and try to hear a message anyway. I'll definitely try that...And yeah remembering about mental illness and having compassion for that would probably be a good idea for me. That's mainly what I think I'm dealing with in the specific case I just posted about...Pretty sure I can muster up the willingness to be there for at least 5 minutes :D
My sponsor once told me when the person I can't stand speaks repeat every word she says very carefully in my head. ..You never know what you're gonna need to hear.
I am often told that the things that irritate me in other people are the things that I do myself..This was made clear to me in Step 4..So although they still give me the shits I try to keep in mind that my patience and tolerance is my problem not theirs.
The folks I struggle with are the ones that I am scared that I'm like.  
I had an experience like this just the other day visiting an Oxford house on a 12-step call. Two of the guys were spouting so much bullshit about how they didn't need certain parts of the program and I wanted to vehemently disagree but I didn't. I had to comport myself and be a lot more diplomatic. It could be that the aspect of them picking and choosing parts of the program is something I fear/worry about myself so I disliked it in them. ..All in all it was a very enlightening experience.
Remember these are sick people.  Would you be mad at someone for being disabled or for having schizophrenia?
EVERY TIME I have a problem with the world outside me it's simply a chance to ask God what he's trying to teach me as there's something inside myself that needs attention...As someone who meditates I watch my thoughts when my "blood boils." What are my thoughts telling me? Can I choose to believe something different? ..Changing myself is my #1 priority. Until I change practically speaking I would make a habit of picking up the phone listening making it ALL about that other person and then praying for them for 2 weeks.
I've only met 2 guys in AA through the years who creeped me out and made my stomach turn. Neither stuck for too long but when one of them asked me to sponsor him I agreed. Any lengths you know.
Im going to be the unpopular opinion here. Keep them at an arms length. I didnt get sober to have someone else make us miserable. I can do that best by myself.  There are others in the group that can help. Being sober and healthy means establishing boundaries. Thanks
I think the best solution for this situation is what i have been instructed to do ANYTIME another human being aggrivates me look at myself I have found this to be the best solution...Sometimes I am angry because I demand that they behave better this may get complicated but i will try and keep it simple. In the early days selfish people who could not read my body language and subtle clues as to how i felt about their requests and persisted in asking me things used to drive me nuts. They were not going to change so i had to. I needed to ask for the courage to be honest with people and say no sometimes and after doing that for a while I can say no to most people now and i find these same people don't make me angry much anymore because when i feel they are pushing to hard i can defend myself in a mature manner and just calmly say no without having to get emotional and  make a big deal out of it...But god does not want me to get too comfortable so once i "master" this he sends me other kinds of people to try and figure out  who activate other things in me and make me angry there seems to be an unending supply of sick people lining up just to aggrivate me(and teach me lessons i never asked for) sometimes perhaps i need to do as my sponsor taught me and look back and see my progress and thank god for it and then i may feel better about moving forward again against resistance.
Read page 552 of the Big Book Fourth Edition. It truly works. ..Spoiler alert: pray. 
