-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8djswm/to_meeting_or_not_to_meeting/

This is something I struggle with on occasions. I have a year and a half sober and attend meetings regularly (Mondays Thursdays Fridays and Saturdays). I've always heard that if you're wondering if you should go to meeting or not you need to go. However sometimes (like today) I'm feeling RID and cranky and I honestly just want to spend the evening at home relaxing with my cat and a book. With it being Thursday I usually would go to a meeting but I went to one last night to watch a friend speak. ..I do tend to  burn out  on meetings if I go to too many in a week (like sometimes I'll do two on Saturday or one every day if I have friends celebrating birthdays at their home groups). I am heavily involved in YPAA and this Sunday is one of our business meetings so I feel like this week is chock full of AA already. ..When you're feeling crappy how do you make the call between needing a meeting or needing an evening of alone time at home?
----------immediate responses--------

If you don't want to go because you're going too often. Then take a day off. There's nothing wrong with that. If you find yourself taking a week or more off you're gonna have to ask yourself what are your motivations. In other words you know if you need a meeting. 
I have "core" meetings as part of my meetings I make and those core meetings I don't miss.  If I'm having an off day on those days I just go because that's what I do.  On another day I might feel like I'd feel better if I just stayed at home and watched teevee or surfed the web so I do that.  Works for me :)
Talk to your sponsor 
I don't go on Thursdays but a newcomer I'd not seen in a year called so we went. Late 30s walking with a cane and partially paralyzed from a stroke...Friday is a regular meeting for me and I'll pick him and a sponsee up. The extra meeting and 2 hours away from my comfortable home didn't hurt me as far as I can tell. Refusing to rise to the situ would have been useful as an indicator that I was getting complacent...Does this impulse to bail on your Friday meeting indicate anything useful to you?
