-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8dmuyd/day_four_after_my_lightest_relapse_worst_side/

This is the worst comeback ive ever experienced. I cant sleep. I cant eat the few things that brought me joy and comfort even after some really intense relapses don't anymore. I'm entering into a dual diagnosis intensive outpatient treatment (first time in any treatment i have some undiagnosed behavioral problems as well as some diagnosed) on the 26th.  have had a fuckton of check ups in the mean time. Never felt genuine paranoia before but im starting to hear voices. I left my ID at a friends house (im pretty sure im fucking scatterbrained as shit dont carry a wallet cause i am trying to mitigate my losses when something does go missing forgot to set my parking brake the other day) knocked on the door after coming home for an hour because my phone was dead left cause i figured she was asleep. Came around the building to buy a pack of cigarettes and a security guard who was parked at an adjacent building happened to pull around as i was walking around to the seven eleven. Walked over and asked if everything was cool because i couldnt tell if he was following me or not. ..What the fuck. Obviously he wasnt but it just took me 45 minutes to convince myself of that. I'm not hearing voices but I feel like a dead man walking often. ..I ate my first meal since my detox (it was a pretty mellow detox ive honestly had worse hangovers) today. Had a good conversation with three friends (trying to bounce back from my self created isolation) even got up and sang some karaoke (safe bar bartenders know not to serve me). ..Now that im alone its four am im wide awake. For a while id just drive around the city until i got tired and then id either park and take a nap or if i was close enough come home. I cant do that now because every parked cop i see on the road i pull over and "ask for directions" just to make sure they aren't eyeballing me. ..My last relapse was one drink. After a few days sober. When it wore off i had the worst panic attack since years before i even had my first drink. We had settled on dual diagnosis outpatient the night before and i figured id have one more. .The panic attacks happen about once a day since. .The other night i took a shower and didnt dry off and didnt turn the heat on in the house and laid underneath the covers. My logic was that if it was too cold to get out of bed id stay in bed till after last call and i could make it to my meeting in the morning. It worked but jesus christ is that what this has come to?..The cravings are fading as they typically start to for me around day four. Frankly ive never actually relapsed as a result of a craving. Every first drink of every relapse has been a conscious decision that ive tricked myself into making. But i feel like this is borderline psychosis. This has never happened to me before. Its never been like this. ..Fuck today i was getting a haircut and and saw a parent of a friend i havent spoken to in years in the barber chair nearby. I said "hey joeblow dont turn your head but its me throwanon52 looking good." He kind of half waved and after his haircut didnt even acknowledge me as he left and for what ever reason that gave me such a severe panic attack i almost left without paying after the haircut. What the hell? Why would that be my reaction to something as innocuous as that. ..The dual diagnosis is probably going to include some ptsd shit. Maybe my fears about that shit coming out of the woodwork next thursday is self triggering these panic attacks. I dont really know but ive never been so distracted by anxiety and paranoia that im not even thinking about drinking..If anyone has any experience with this and could offer some insight on how to cope with this or at least some knowledge about when it will stop id appreciate it greatly
----------immediate responses--------

Good luck.
Hiya thanks for sharing. I went through similar experiences except my hallucinations both visual and auditory were a bit tough at times. Luckily I had some old smooth books to reread and some history tapes and calm music. That was super important for me. I barely slept those first few weeks and instead of letting my mind wander and instead of risking something bad on tv I gave myself stuff that wouldn't be upsetting and would be slow and steady. You can't get overly stressed out reading a book. ..Let me tell you pain is a great motivator. My experience was the primary motivator for my first months in recovery. It wasn't the only reason I wanted to stay clean and sober those first months but it was a rabid barking dog lunging against a weak chain. I knew that if I wasn't careful I would either get too close or break that damn chain and I did not want to go through this again...And what was amazing is that most of the people I talked to in the real AA and NA rooms had gone through what I had gone through. These were people who were NOT just talking BS. These people had had the panic attacks the stress the everything I was going through and they made it through. They made it through and they were able to stay sober and clean for months and years and that was now something I wanted...Anyway stay strong. Reread the Lord of the Rings or something big and slow and cool. Keep the fluids coming and eat as much and as healthy as you can. Healthy smoothies are great. Get to as many meetings as you can. You will make it through ok.
That was a lot of words  all I really drew from it was   safe bar   . That doesn't exist in my world. We all work our own programs. Use caution in the world. Our disease wants us dead. 
I experienced some depersonalization extreme panic attacks  hallucinations  memory loss  and others. I was also diagnosed with ptsd gad and panic attacks The good news is the panic attacks stopped almost immediately when I quit drinking and haven't come back. I've experienced a lot of times since then the feeling that a panic attack is starting but it always dissipates (and I strongly feel this was the result of the effexor that I was taking) Hallucinations quit after a few days  short term memory loss is still bad possibly even worse.  ..I consider myself in remission from a deadly disease. For the first time in my life I'm being gentle and kind to myself.  I eat and sleep and keep my house clean. Take good care think of yourself and treat yourself like you would a cherished friend or younger sibling.  YOU deserve it. 
Intense self-centeredness made even the small details of life dramatic.
Every subsequent detox is worse than the last. I hope you will have a checkup with a doctor and get your mental health issues evaluated and appropriately treated. 
5 suggestions are: .Go to meetings get a big book find a sponsor find a higher power and don't drink. ..Trust the process... I've been in bad states too. At the very end of my drinking I would always wake up with a catheter in the ER. ..We don't have to figure everything out. We can trust that it will work out the way it needs to. Our stories are unfolding before us. 
