-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8dze0t/relapsing_again_i_know_the_consequences_just_dont/

I'm defective I was defective before starting drink and I'm still defective after quitting drink. At least if I'm drinking theirs a chance I might drift off in my sleep I love sleep. Thanks for all the help over the years. 
----------immediate responses--------

My last lapse was like that: I know ... I know ... I don't care. Booze doesn't work but neither does anything else .....I hope you jump back on the wagon soon enough and don't beat yourself up about it. Let it just be a lapse not  relapse.
I'm sorry you are in pain. 
I know that feeling I've been in that hole.  I made it out  you can too . I didn't think I was worth saving I found out I was wrong. I was so sure I just wanted to pass out and never wake up. I found out that was the booze talking none of it was the truth. After I got the booze out me for a while I didn't feel like that at all. I know what you're talking about though. Hope you take some time to feel better 
Please don't stop going to meetings. The only requirement us a DESIRE to stop drinking. I went to meetings while still drinking. I didn't show up drinking i went home after and drank. It was hearing the message day in and out that got me to finally stop my relapse . it took a month but i made it. I wish you the willingness. Stay well my friend.
I hear you loud and clear bro.  Fuck I hate that feeling. You aren't  alone and sorry you are hurting.  It will pass it will pass it will pass. Stay in the fight. You are loved and you are worth it. Let's  talk about it dude. Or I can listen.  Send me a pm anytime.
 Future you deserves for present you to be kind.     You deserve to get out of the pain.  Please ask for help you'll be helping someone else just by asking. 
I'm pretty defective too. But talking to others helps me. You don't have to drink... the solution is all inside. One day I will learn to love myself... but for now I just rely on a power greater than myself. 
Your crystal ball is better than mine. The consequences related to my drinking often surprised me. A very long list of unpleasant things I never saw coming...Stay as safe as you can.
