-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8e1hz2/my_first_post_here/

I'm 38 been a pretty regular drinker for almost 20 years just been gradually more and more.  Lately I'd been drinking a 6-pack of good IPA just about every night.  I was handing my business doing good at work keeping up with house chores and taking care of the kids.  When I got home from work I'd make dinner put the kids to bed then spend the night drinking and chain smoking outside and binge watching sci-fi tv on my laptop.  It wasn't good.  My doc was getting on to me about my cholesterol and weight.  My wife was frustrated that I wasn't spending time with her.  She said I was grumpy when I wasn't drinking then Mr. Cheerful after a couple beers.  .A couple weeks ago I was 6-deep and my wife was out with her friends.  I got in the shower and was feeling frustrated with a lack of intimacy in our relationship started singing a stupid song about how I was bored and sad and lonely.  There are some issues my wife and I need to work out along those lines but that' s not the point here.  The point?  How'd I get to my realization that I had a problem?  Guess who was drunk and not paying attention to the time and guess who came home and heard me singing about how bored and frustrated I was.  Crap.  She was understandably really hurt.  I was horrified -- my bitching was me working my feelings out not meant for anyone but me.  Skipping the details of our talking that night she took it reasonably well and seems basically okay after a couple days and it got me really reflecting on the impact drinking has had on my life and the people around me besides just my health.  I've had a few long-term relationships that were pretty good in their own ways and looking back ended because I was drinking too much.  I chose my friends in college and at work based on who I liked to drink with -- they're all long-gone since I got married and had kids.  I had some old friends from my childhood that I had stayed close with until my 20's until drunkenly I did some things that hurt them.  I've screwed up some good things by drinking too much and before a couple weeks ago I couldn't admit it to myself.  I'd say "yeah I drank too much that time but I don't have a problem.  I'm not an alcoholic.  It's not like I'm drinking a bottle of whiskey"  .I still hate the word "alcoholic".  "Alcoholic is an adjective to describe a beverage and I'm not a beverage."  I do recognize however that I really like beer and I tend to not stop after one or two.  After 3 or 4 I'm probably not going to stop until I'm good and drunk... and that's not good. .So for my wife for my kids for myself and not making such as ass of myself hopefully I'm 14 days 15 hours 37 minutes sober.   It's hard.  I'm struggling with jealousy towards other people who are drinking.  I'm resentful towards myself that I haven't controlled my drinking so that I can't just enjoy a beer or two with friends.  I'm mentally tired from trying to keep myself busy and finding things to do with my time.  I haven't slept well in two weeks.  It's really hard but I know it's something I need to do and I'm getting better..
----------immediate responses--------

It's much easier with support there are tons of others with similar experience. I got my support from AA... And talked about the obsession of every alcoholic to one day drink like a normal person After soo much evidence (loss of relationships friends job career dignity) I've accepted that I can't drink like normal people - this has freed me up. Sobriety has given me self respect better and deeper relationships honesty and a better way to live. I take it one day at a time and I get better every day...by putting in the work to treat this disease..Be easy on yourself please everyday you don't drink is a win. Other things will fall into place. I won't drink with you today.
I also disliked the word  alcoholic . I also had a VERY similar drinking habit. Beers after work. Every day. Sometimes 2-3 sometimes 4-5. On weekends 6+ and maybe a few shots. Then all bets were off. Anyway - fast forward 4 months and I'm well on my way to being resolved to giving up beer and booze for good. AA meetings and sponsor played a huge role. Good luck.   you cans do it. IWNDWYT 
It gets easier but takes a while. sleep will return to normal.
Serious question-do you think anyone LIKES the word alcoholic? I don't like the word diarrhea either but that's what it's called. I hated the idea of being an alcoholic but it's what I am. I have the disease of alcoholism. Once I accepted that and understood what it meant my life got a whole lot better. Good luck!
I don't like calling myself an alcoholic but thinking of it as the progressive disease that it is has helped me to accept it. My life has improved immeasurably by not drinking so I'm going to plan to not drink tomorrow. I am rooting for you  
