-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8e2ez9/how_long_before_my_sleeping_patterns_go_back_to/

I'm a little over 2 weeks sober yay :) but the only problem I've had so far is I haven't been sleeping properly...I was falling asleep around 930-10 pm and waking up between 2-4 am. Then I'd normally just watch YouTube videos until I fall asleep which doesn't happen until like 9 am but I have to be up by 10 am to get to work on time...Ideally I'll sleep through the night until 5-6 am that way I can start exercising again but it hasn't happened that way...Recently however I haven't been sleeping at all. Last night I didn't sleep until like 6 am and had to be up at 10 am. Tonight I haven't slept at all...My drinking pattern:..Before going sober I was drinking heavily for about 2 years maybe 3 to 4 times a week. Sometimes more since I'd be drunk during the day and continue when I got home...I literally quit cold turkey. I've attempted this before but would relapse after 3 days normally. This time however after taking the best vacation I've ever had I returned home and without any effort stopped drinking. I just suddenly stopped having cravings. I still don't feel the need to drink and most likely won't anymore. I just want to sleep normally again only way I've been getting through the day is with a lot of coffee.
----------immediate responses--------

I had a very similar experience. I would wake up at 2 am almost every day for the first month or so. On the flip I was able to function much better on less sleep because I was no longer hungover. I used the opportunity to hit up late AA meetings. There's a midnight group that meets by me. ..Hang in there; it gets better. Especially once you realize  that drinking wasn't the problem it was the solution to your problems (albeit a shitty solution). AA was integral in helping me identify my overlying defects of character. I am a much happier more peaceful person today as a result. .
Man that is really some awesome stuff.
The reason they say do 90 meeting in 90 days is that it takes about that long to fully clear out your system...
In my experience It was after I took my first cake. 
Sorry I realize maybe that wasn't super clear. More than a year 
I'm only 33 days sober and my sleeping has returned to normal. I also exercise and do not use electronics within 1 hour of going to bed. Blue light/looking at YouTube videos will interfere with sleep. 
It took me 6 months. Early on I'd get a couple of hours at the most usually at the end of a fitful night. My head was like a washing machine on spin cycle it just wouldn't shut up I guess because it was used to being bathed in sedative (booze) most of the time. When I quit drinking I was high as a kite. Cutting out all caffeine helped. Even today if I have a cup of coffee I'm up for the next 12 hours guaranteed so I limit my coffee intake to before 12 noon. After that I drink tea or soft drinks (no cola). It's only when you don't drink it much that you realise just how powerful a drug caffeine is. I've just switched to buying caffeine free cola for my teenage son's and the difference in getting them up and out to school in the morning is amazing. It really has a dramatic effect on their sleeping patterns...During those first six months I improved day by day each night I'd get about 5 or 10 minutes more than the night before and now I sleep like a baby - a couple of pages of a book or a 10 minutes YouTube and I'm dead to the world for at least 6 hours. ..What I did make my self do right from day one was to actually get into bed at 10 or 11pm every night so at least my body would get some rest even if I spent the whole night reading or listening to the radio...One think that happened that I didn't expect was sleep paralysis. Some nights my body would be so tied that it'd go to sleep before my head did. I thought the hallucinations I had during withdrawals were bad but imagining you are been held down by aliens or ghosts while they wander around your darkened room unable to move or even blink is a whole magnitude of horror higher. But they passed over time...But not once did I think a drink would make it better - probably because in those first 6 months I literally lived in AA meetings. If I was out of bed I'd either be on my way to or back from or in a meeting. The occasional night terror didn't phase me one bit as I was reminding myself of the actual horror of drinking each day by listening to other alcoholics in those meetings. 
Took me 53 days for the brain fog to lift. I had vivid blue lightning dreams then nothing...no dreaming at all. Took time for my brain to figure out what to do without 1.5L of ethanol laced grape juice in the daily mix. It was day 183 that the aperture on my brain opened up and it was like I was seeing life in HD. Your mileage may vary one day at a time.  
It took me about a month to sleep somewhat normal. I drank heavy for 15 years. Mostly bourbon and a lot if it. It takes time for your body and mind to sync. But it will happen. Just keep taking it one day at a time. 18 months now for me and I sleep very very well. 
