-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8ewsdr/help_with_my_bachelor_party/

Hey everyone I am having my bachelor party next week and inviting my two brothers and friends from high school college and friends I've made along the way. All great people and all very respectful....Here's where I need any advice possible. My little brother recently got his two year chip and I couldn't be a prouder big brother. He's had his struggles and I've been there as much as I can for him and as much as he wants me to. He's made incredible progress and has really turned his life around. Now everyone at my party is all in their thirties half have kids and/or are having kids soon. None of us really want to have 3 days worth of hangovers and I don't feel like closing the bars out every night. But we are going to of course have alcohol in the house and party. Is there anything I can do/provide that anyone thinks will make my little brother's experience easier on him? I hate that he's in a situation where temptation will be all around but I've already sent word out to friends to not offer and not push the idea of getting him to drink. I know he's an adult and he's got to do it on his own but I just want him to have a good time. He drinks coffee/rockstars like a fish but he has a minor heart issue and should really shouldn't be having that much caffeine oh and a smoker. Anyway if anyone has any idea on how to help make this a great experience for him let me know. I will appreciate any feedback! I've posted in the AlAnon subreddit as well. 
----------immediate responses--------

Give him various non alcholic beers to choose from. Tell your friends that your brother doesn't drink. Let him know that it's alright if he leaves early .
Make sure he has his own car and can leave freely and whenever he wants.I remember getting trapped somewhere around a ton of drinkers early in sobriety and it was hellish.Im sure hes talked to his sponsor tho and has a plan.Its so nice that youre concerned and asking for help with this.Youre a great brother.Congrats on getting married.  
I would just talk to him and be open. If he is strong in his sobriety  it won't be tempting. If it is something he gets uncomfortable with then don't be offended if he has to leave. ..May I suggest a different outing for just you and your brothers? A different day with golf and wings? ..My friends all drink on their birthdays. I'm always invited but they are never offended if I pass. Instead of the party  I take them out to dinner and we watch a movie. I don't want people tip toeing around me on their birthday or at their event. If I'm strong I will go. If I'm not I won't and politely decline and hang out later. ..I don't know you're brother but at two years he's probably not hiding from alcohol. It's probably not a big deal to see people drinking BUT check in with him and be cool with his response.  Hope that helps!
Do you think he feels pressure to attend?..I'm almost three years and can be around alcohol/drinkers for a short time only.  If I felt I might drink I wouldn't go no disrespect but my recovery comes first.  If I felt uncomfortable I'd leave..
don't forget to have food. 
Oh man I hate it when people pre-announce to other people that I won't be drinking at a function. We're kind of anonymous people and when we don't drink nobody ever cares or notices. The social stigma of being known to be not drinking can be more difficult than the actual act of not drinking for some people. I always just keep a soda water or a juice in my hand and nobody ever offers me anything because I have something. That said just have some soda water and juice there. Good looking out and congratulations on your bachelor party!
