-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8f6r64/i_dont_like_big_book_thumpers_they_constantly/

Was at a meetizng a girl was crying because she was struggling with some issues. A big book thumper shared something like  you shouldn't share the mess at the meeting you should only share the solution. I felt so mad at that guy and sad for the girl. These big book thumpers use the book as a weapon and constanlty quote pages and have no humility...These big book thumpers constantly put down other members who do the slow and put down members who Do things a little differently...Can anyone relate? 
----------immediate responses--------

Trouble is where in the Big Book does it say "You shouldn't share the mess at the meeting you should only share the solution"?..Not a very good Big Book thumper if there ever was one.  ;)
Yeah AA is full of mentally ill people. Go figure.
Honestly man that's not a big book thumper that's just an asshole. 
I don't know I think each situation is unique and each person is unique. Listen I went to meetings for years and heard various messages and didn't drink but didn't find peace. It wasn't until I cracked open the book with someone else who read it did it save my life and i finally had that obsession lifted. I now have a solution so I was taught it is my duty to bring hope to meetings and bring problems to a sponsor. ..Now I would never say something to someone that needed to share something because they could be looking for a solution too. And someone dumping has saved my life too. ..What I do have an issue with is a meeting that becomes group therapy where everyone just wants to complain. I don't want to hear about your parking tickets and your sick cat. If you need to vent once twice three times fine. I get it. But if day after day if you're carrying the mess rather than the message then you should talk less and listen (or maybe read) more.  There is a solution. 
Hiya thanks for the sharing. Yes. I can relate. There are a handful of people in our rooms that can really push my buttons. ..It wasn't until I had been in our rooms for a number of years that I finally got the courage to ask my smoking buddies about this; I have a gang of friends who smoke before and after meetings. Anyway one of them told me that our rooms are healing and practice space. If we can learn how to handle the types of people in our rooms we will be able to handle real people out in the real world...We have a couple of old timers who what's a nice way of saying they shit on new people who poo on people who talk about things other than alcohol in our meetings. After the meetings we all surround that new person and give them hugs and tell them it is ok. Not everyone is like that. Granted we are AA and all that but we understand their pain. We who have dual addictions talk about our experience strength and hope and the solutions of NA and CA et al.  ..What I have also learned to do is if someone is having a particularly hard time we are to get a couple of people and stay with them after the meeting. I know that a few times in my recovery I needed an hour or so just for me and my brothers and sisters in these rooms were able to help me. I hope I will always be able to give back what was so freely given to me.
I can only look after my own side of the street if other people get on my nerves it says more about me than it does about them. Because I know when I'm not travelling right even the smallest thing can annoy me
AA isn't group therapy but it should have been handled differently and outside of the meeting at a different time. 
Seriously fuck that guy.  If he does not like what's being shared he can get up and leave.
I think that's the Catch-22 of these  Book thumpers  they know the ideologies and the big book very well and that is an important part of A.A. that is often overlooked or put to the side in place of promoting the fellowship at large. But I have seen the downside of  book thumping  which is exactly what you mentioned. They have very little empathy for differences because usually they view those differences as part of a person's drinking problem. It's very black and white and is hard to see their human-ness at times when they are just regurgitating what has been taught to them. 
Yeah that's not a Big book quote what is though is "Our stories disclose in a general way what we used to be like what happened and what we are like now." So you can correct the cunt next time...Remember there are people in sobriety we would like to be like but there are others we wouldn't.  I do not want the sobriety of  everyone with 20 years or the BB memorized
Yeah AA is just one of many tools. Thats the best way I can deal with my disapointment in it. I saw a great speaker in AA last night. He said two things that were awesome: I have 30 yrs... bfd. I still have problems all the time thats why I use different programs to deal with those different things.  I dunno I go to a meditation meeting and a literature meeting twice a week. They work. I have been to way to many awful meetings. I avoid those.
The guy was in the wrong. People in the "program" go through shit from time to time and newcomers arent walking in coming off a winning streak...Its tempting for these people to air out their problems because they do need help and the attention of genuinely nice people but it does leave them vulnerable...I took the advice to share in a general way in meetings and deal with specifics in my fellowship network. That way more people in the meeting can identify and i practice trust and friendship with my fellows.
Weren't you the one trying to put down people a few months ago for not breezing thru the 12 steps like you did? Lol look how far you have come hahah..
When I'm going thru shit I usually briefly state it. Then I share how I'm using the program not to drink over it..No alcoholic is perfect. The ideal is 'love &amp; tolerance'. Oops that's from the Big Book but it's a cool ideal :-)
There are a lot of self-centred people in AA - that's kind of the whole idea. Ridding oneself of this egocentricity is what AA has on offer as a solution to alcoholism. Sounds like both the guy and the girl were being particularly self-centred.  Sharing about issues that have nothing to do with alcohol is setting yourself apart from others in the AA meeting. Likewise introducing yourself as a greatfull recovered alcoholic which so many big book thumpers do is also setting yourself apart from others...In my experience most people grow out of both behaviors after about 4 years of sobriety there are some exceptions though and you'll see the other old timers treating them with compassion patience and tollerance - that is the true sign of recovery.
The biggest problem with over-sharing at meetings about the mess is that it often starts a trend of people one-upping each other with horror stories.  That's why it's better to discuss most of the messes with a sponsor who is helping you through the steps...That said it's freaking rude to cross talk and tell others what to share about IMO.
The meetings Should be sharing the solution- which is the book. A lot of meetings end up being people spewing and venting. Save that for a one-on-one at the meeting after the meeting (fellowship)
