-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8fbplu/6days_in_cold_turkey_but_not_by_choice/

So I posted in TIFU about how I failed a UA for a job my po lined me up with. I have to meet with her today at 9am. Might go to jail. After I relapsed on 420 n also blacked out n apparently partook in festivities..but I haven't drank since that day. It sucks because when asked my drug of choice no matter what deep down it's alcohol (if u consider it a drug I think so) this is the longest time I've went without a drop since being locked up (8months(2012)) other than that I've drank just about everyday since HS... what are some strategies to fight the urge..might be forced to continue to be sober once I go see her today. I kinda don't wanna go but I can't run from my problems... I lost everything a supervisor position apartment friends trust from family etc... But I still keep going back to drinking. It's like I don't feel right if I don't indulge I know I sound fuckin stupid but that's how I feel. My mom broke down and begged me to quit a million times or get help breaks my heart Everytime and you would think I'd quit for  a few days nope I just drown it out...idk what to do I just fail every time...I have a 4yr degree from University but can't get a decent job cuz of my bg. I feel hopeless...any advice  strategies how should I approach po without digging myself deeper...
----------immediate responses--------

At a certain point I had to admit to myself that I was powerless over alcohol...I thought that I had and was about 60 days clean and then I saw something that made me realize that I was just waiting for a chance to go on another run...Once I made a 100% admission of my complete powerlessness it became easier...The only thing I can suggest is make meetings and stay connected with the fellowship.
Your story runs really closely to mine. I get it man. I'm a serial relapser and it's so easy to just say "aw yeah I can stop drinking tomorrow cause there's no way I'm doing(insert everyday activity) sober today. ..  Then it keeps circling around like a shark in the water and you're bleeding. The acceptance that you know you're just destined to be this fuck up. The alcoholic brother son cousin. ..  I'm just now digging my heels in again after a 1.5 year "moderation" program relapse. One less job and one more dui is the score. ..  I'd recommend getting to a meeting. I don't know if you ever have through lockup or court mandate but go to one. You'll definitely hear some shit that makes you think "oh no way am I this bad" or "I'm not like any of these people". Stick around and I guarantee you'll start to see yourself in everyone of them. Because we're all the same. ..  But as for today? Right now? I know it sounds hokey but write yourself a letter(sober). Or a pros and cons list for drinking. If you want do these exercises drunk too and compare. ..  No matter what. It's just today. Anybody can go one day. I'll do it with you man. Also if you're not on it already go check out the water at /r/stopdrinking. Great folk over there..  Good luck Internet stranger!
Uhhh you've totally got my consideration.
