-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8fnd79/changing_sponsor/

I really want to find a new sponsor however I'm in the middle of step 5... my sponsor and I are unable to get it done in one day because she has 4 little kids. So here's the problem: 1) she is extremely rude and a bully 2) she never goes to meetings with me and 3) when I met her up to do my 5th step we go to this coffee shop and she started yelling at me in front of the coffee guy because I didn't want to go to a CA meeting and I had told her that because I am an alcoholic and only feel comfortable in AA. I also told her that we need to get my 5th step done because this can take me out but she thinks going to a CA meeting is more important. She doesn't even have a sponsor and in my opinion doesn't know what she is doing. On top of that the family she married into are close family friends with my husbands family and I'm getting uncomfortable sharing information with her. She does have good suggestions some I take and some I'm learning how to take but honestly yelling at a sponsee is absolutely unacceptable. In fact I find that abusive. I was wondering what your opinion is and give me an idea on what I should do. I don't want to relapse because of the resent I have for her. 
----------immediate responses--------

You need to lose this person asap. Seems like just being around her is a threat to your sobriety. If you have a homegroup I would start looking there.
This sounds no good for either of you. Ending this arrangement sounds like the best idea. 
I rolled my eyes at everything you said up until you said she has no sponsor. If your sponsor doesn't have a sponsor then neither do you. That's not how this works.
Remember this...You can change your sponsor change your home group even get a new Higher Power...Just don't change your Clean Date.
sounds like plenty of drama
Find a new sponsor and then politely  fire' the old one.  No need to go into a lot of detail about why you have chosen a new sponsor.  I would simply say thank you and that you have decided to work the steps with someone else.
Yea here's what I found out after coming too after a 3 month long binge that left me forced to drink 8 beers every morning just to go to work and stop shaking. Fuck people that swear by just meetings. You HAVE to work the steps or you WILL drink. For years I just went to meetings and didn't take things seriously I was cynical and mocked the  big book thumpers  for weirdos who drank the koolaid. Then after coming too from a blackout not knowing anything and shaking like a maniac the reason those hardcore  B.B. thumpers  obsess about the steps and spirituality is because they realized they were real alcoholics and they ain't fucking around when it comes to this shit. I'm so fucking terrified I'll drink again that I'm reading that big book and doing what it says. Meeting makers make fucking meetings. Goddammit all those ducking hardcore B.B. nazis are right. You have to work the steps and find god or you and me and all of us are fucked. Keep doing your 5th step and drop that lady whose clearly not getting it if she thinks a fucking meeting is more important than the 5th step. 
I'm fucking convinced. If you can stay sober without God and without doing steps Your not an alcoholic. Yup. I used to hate people that said that. Only god will keep you sober whatever that is. 
You're not comfortable doing your 5th with her because she may not be closed-mouthed and understanding. So according to our literature she doesn't qualify to hear your 5th. You need to find another person who does meet our standards.
 Your sponsor should most definitely have a sponsor.  The women in recovery around me often talk about their sponsorship 'lines ' their 'grand ' sponsors and 'grandbabies ' haha! .Who does your sponsor call if she's not sure what you should do or what to say to you? This sounds like an extremely dangerous situation!
She doesn't call anyone and that's why I've been doing my 5th step for 3 weeks now. 
Yeah we have been doing the 5th step for 3 weeks!!!
She might fire me anyways. I forgot to call her yesterday. :-/
She's also not very active in recovery. I know it sounds like complaining some of it is but I really don't want what she has and she has been taking me through the 5th step for 3 weeks. Her excuse on why she is better than me is that she has  6 years  however I know for a fact she doesn't work a program and yes doesn't have a sponsor. I wound rather have someone with 1 year that works a program and has a sponsor taking me through the steps.
