-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8g147j/not_so_amused_skepticism/

I just got 4 months. This is the most i've ever put forth towards the program. First fourth/fifth step first time making amends having a home group w a service position. I honestly think I am the best me I have ever been and can see a happy future of sobriety working for me. Something i've been struggling with lately is questioning the authenticity of the people in the rooms. Something that was very enticing to me initially was how accepting and willing to help the people in the program were. Now that I'm a few months in and have gotten to know the people I looked up to when I came in I can't help but to notice that the traits that attracted to me are turning into kind of a hollow facade. I don't know if people are my friend for me or for their own recovery. I understand we are all sick so I try not to be so cynical and judgmental. I just really want this to last and authentic interpersonal relationships mean a lot to me so I can't help but to worry about things like this. Luckily this is an issue that i'm positive drinking/using wont fix. Just wanted to vent to people outside of the fellowship in my area. I am nothing but grateful for the program!!!!
----------immediate responses--------

Just some thoughts some of us are sicker than others. Always wise to look out for yourself. With the time you have in the perverbial   pink cloud   may be bursting. You may be getting down to some more meat and potatoes recovery where a lot of growth happens. Just some thoughts  take what fits and ditch the rest. 
It may help to know and accept that the lifelong friendships we enjoy with other members are conditioned on both sides staying sober in emotional balance and also the deep trust that builds over time between people who may not trust easily...Generally the members they got sober with will always be more important to them than are you. Again in general people will not invest deeply in friendship with you until you have a number of years and a track record of living by principles...When the longterm friendships eventually happen for you they are in cement closer in most respects than brothers can be. 
I am 8 years clean and sober...I will straight up admit that I sponsor to keep myslef sober.  I make "friends" and help people and give out my number so I can stay sober.  It's the 12th step - and my service to AA keeps me sober...That said I have made some lasting and true friendships in this program but I am also a little cynical as so many people come to the rooms for a meeting or two and just disappear.  Also people die - addicts die a lot and it's hard to deal with so a part of my program is making sure a death doesn't lead to my relapse.
I was so impressed by so many people in the rooms when I first got sober that I think I made the mistake of putting some on a pedestal. Some are sicker than others even in sobriety. I have friends today in the program who I can truly call on and are authentic. It takes a while. I struggled with the same thing you're describing. I try to remember that even the deeply flawed help keep me sober even if the motivation is to be more tolerant and kind in my sobriety. Everyone in the rooms is a teacher in one way or another. 
Luckily they don't need to be our lifelong friends to help us stay sober we just need to practice the steps and keep coming back. I don't need to be their friends either I just need a desire to stop drinking.
Same as others have said. I too have experienced this. The person that 'brought me in' doesn't figure in my life at all these days. I will be eternally grateful to him for doing that - but that's where we parted ways. He is a 2 -stepper  (with shades of 13). Not my kinda company. ..I put people on pedestals from the get go. Anyone with longer time than me was a guru in my head. But I learned painfully at times. Don't watch people mouths watch their feet. Actions speak louder than words.... and People will reach out to help you to help their recovery. Thats how it works. You give to get and get to give. But dont let that negate your chance to develop friendships. I wish you well  
The single most helpful thing I have done in the rooms to make real friends has been to join a mens step group. A nice small group of 5 or 6 guys getting together and reading through the 12 and 12 then sharing about their experiences with each step and tradition. Then the all important going out for dinner afterwards for some fellowship. I have met some amazing men who I now call friends by doing this...Like others have said a lot of it is people trying to stay sober. You give away the gift that was given to you and thats how you keep it. I do it too and understand why I have to. I'm "friends" with lots of people in the rooms but theres really only 4 or 5 guys I would reach out to as friends.
I can relate to well not fully relating to other people in the rooms. I know I didn't come in looking for new friends; I wasn't real thrilled to admit that I needed other people's help to get sober and I'm sure I still have some walls up at times even though I have in fact now made many friends and have been in long enough even to have lost a few.  .  .I try to remember that someone may not feel as confident in their sobriety as they try to "act as if"   and that's okay. I don't want to be an added pressure on someone who never got the manual for how to be a person; Lord knows I didn't get one either.  .  .I am very lucky I realized pretty quickly in that my pre-AA friends while I had gotten drunk with them at times were far from being my "drinking buddies." In that sense I was lucky to have been an isolator because none of my close friends drank anywhere nearly as much as I did. So they're still very much my friends and I wish I saw them more often than I get to now. I can appreciate very much that it could be a very different situation for someone whose friends were mostly found at the bar in their drinking days.  .  .I think the longer you spend in AA the more beautifully different you find people there and the more active drunks start to seem like caricatures of themselves. So give it some time and take a genuine interest in people. In their sobriety yes but also in their humanity. The irony could be that if you're finding yourself overfocused on other people's authenticity you could definitely be giving off an inauthentic vibe yourself. Possible?
Im not too big on synchronicity..  But its really strange i came across this post when its exactly how ive been feeling recently about meetings...The thing for me is that ive been in and out of meetings for almost 10 years and never took a program serious.  ..Recently over these last 2 months ive gotten back into meetings and ive told myself im gonna be extremely patient getting to know people for this exact reason.  Its like im just too thrown off by how some people are so welcoming towards me when they dont know a thing about me.  Its like im naturally "on guard" because of this.  ..Its difficult because i can tell ive bothered some people by not being more social before and after meetings.  Also not sharing for very long when i do speak up.  ..The thing is that this time im taking my sobriety a hell of a lot more serious this time around and if that means hurting peoples sensitive feelings because it takes me a LONG time before i can really trust someone then so be it.  Didnt mean to go on a rant just now...  But yeah AA is far from perfect and its always good to stay realistic.  
Your thoughts and feelings are absolutely normal in AA in my experience and in the shared experience of many I have heard...From 12 and 12 page 93....."*Finally we begin to see that all people including ourselves are to some extent emotionally ill as well as frequently wrong and then we approach true tolerance and see what real love for our fellows actually means. It will become more and more evident as we go forward that it is pointless to become angry or to get hurt by people who like us are suffering from the pains of growing up.* ..*Such a radical change in our outlook will take time maybe a lot of time. Not many people can truthfully assert that they love everybody. Most of us must admit that we have loved but a few; that we have been quite indifferent to the many so long as none of them gave us trouble; and as for the remainder well we have really disliked or hated them. Although these attitudes are common enough we A.A.'s find we need something much better in order to keep our balance. We can't stand it if we hate deeply. The idea that we can be possessively loving of a few can ignore the  many and can continue to fear or hate anybody has to be abandoned if only a little at a time.* ..*We can try to stop making unreasonable demands upon those we love. We can show kindness where we had shown none. With those we dislike we can begin to practice justice and courtesy perhaps going out of our way to understand and help them. Whenever we fail any of these people we can promptly admit it to ourselves always and to them also when the admission would be helpful. Courtesy kindness justice and love are the keynotes by which we may come into harmony with practically anybody. When in doubt we can always pause saying  Not my will but Thine be done.  And we can often ask ourselves  Am I doing to others as I would have them do to me today?*  ..Hang in there and choose what kind of a friend you want to be...
Congrats on the four months.  I find that sometimes I resent people in the room or different meetings.  Whatever the reason I made a deal with myself not to use that as an excuse to stop going to meetings. When it happens I will usually try different or new meetings sit on a different side of the room talk to some new people arrive early etc.  ..Good luck. .
This to shall pass. Keep coming back. There are many changes going on with you and people are human. Allow your HP to guide you. Maybe  you intuitively know how to handle things  and God is guiding you toward healthier people. It'll all be ok either way. 
