-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8gc244/i_just_found_out_im_pregnant/

I'm not even sure how I got here but I've been drinking daily for months now. My husband and I have been trying to get pregnant for 3 and 1/2 years and struggled with unexplained infertility. I'm kind of freaking out because I'm having to quit completely cold turkey instead of just cutting back bit by bit and I'm also scared because I know how heavily I've been drinking the past month. I'm also a heavy weed smoker and so not having either crutch is going to be really rough. Do you guys have any suggestions or advice for dealing with withdrawals and all of the shittiness that I'm going to go through over the next couple of weeks?
----------immediate responses--------

Talk to your doctor. Be very honest. He may be able to medically detox you in a way that will be safe for both you and your fetus. Go to a meeting reach out to other alcoholics and stay strong. ..But call your doctor today. Do not lie or sugar-coat anything. They need the facts to treat you properly...I'm pulling for you.
Learn to pray.
Check out /r/stopdrinking.   They can help.
You got this  do as suggested. Trust in god. If you think you've got a problem go to a meeting. But listen  withdrawal from booze can be dangerous if you feel like you're getting shakes  go to to er.  Immediately especially since ur pregnant. Check back here if ya like we care
Uhhh.... since you came here and this is an AA sub and no one else has even said a single word about AA and in fact have directed you to another sub to get you're feel-good on I'll go ahead and be the dissenting opinion. .   You could go ahead and get to an AA meeting. Introduce yourself find a woman you can talk to tell her you are pregnant and work the program.Of AA! I haven't had a drink since I first walked into AA and it's been 12 years. Despite no one even mentioning it AA works if you want it. .   Best of luck! 
Talk to your doctor ASAP...
I just want to add that when I found out I was pregnant I was also drinking smoking and snorting. I told my doctor and he gave me a chance to quit. I couldn't. I called his office one day when I was very down and he got me imto an outpatient treatment program immediately. I started that and AA and was able to quit everything within a matter of weeks. My son will be 10 in August. I ended up relapsing when I quit going to meetings but will have 3 years in about 2 weeks. My family is healthy and its because I asked for helpjust like you are doing. Keep reaching out til you get what you need!
Stay strong be transparent with your doctor and with the kind spirits you meet in AA. Talk to people who have been pregnant in AA-and you can always reach out to me even though I've never been pregnant 
Hiya thanks for sharing. Congratulations. What a cool little blessing to come at y'all so unexpected especially after y'alls 3.5 years. Congrats!..Like the others have said just be honest with your doctor. They know what to do. You should be able to tell right away if your withdrawals will be harsh or not: sweating shakes trembles those kinds of things. If you start right away with the shakes and sweats get an appointment with your doctor a bit sooner than later. Don't panic but get busy...One good healthy thing you can do for relief is get a bunch of comfort food and binge watch a bunch of shows on Netflix or Amazon to keep your mind off things. For most people getting your mind on something other than the next drink or drug is crucial. And comfort food and revisiting seasons of your favorite shows is always good medicine...Also start reading about how much water good food and liquids you need to be a healthy mom. You may surprise yourself how quickly you adapt to it.  Again congratulations. They say god or whomever never gives us more than we can handle. When we do this together and for our kids we have a little extra motivation.
Hopefully the mother instinct in you prevents you from doing anything that can potentially damage your baby. If you're pregnant then don't smoke and don't drink. 
I suggest attending an AA meeting. Even if you're not in it for the Long haul the support network is priceless.
is valium ok for unborn babies? that's the standard best drug for acute withdrawl.
First of all congratulations.  I can still remember that feeling when I saw those two little lines appear on that little stick.  Of course you have a husband and you've been trying for 3.5 years so I'm sure the feeling is a little different for you.  I was in a volatile and chaotic relationship with a violent and abusive alcoholic.  But it took getting pregnant for me to realize that I also had a problem.  Because when I tried to quit I couldn't.  ..I had been drinking laaarge quantities daily for well over a year at that point.  I started drinking daily my last semester of college and after graduating the quantities just escalated.  I was also smoking pot throughout the day and doing adderall to maintain.  I managed to cold turkey the adderall after getting the news.  But I was always really bad at keeping track of my periods so I was 11 weeks when I found out.  Like I said I had been drinking enormous quantities... so for the first 11 weeks of my daughter's life her tiny fetus was exposed to what I'm estimating was an average .2 - .4 BAC daily.  After finding out I went cold turkey on the alcohol but that only lasted 3 months.  I don't know if you've ever been "in the rooms" before but during those 3 months I was what they call "white knuckling" it.  I don't even know how I managed to not drink.  It was one of the hardest things I've ever had to do.  I wish I had gone to a meeting.  I wish I had known to go to one.  Go.  You will find women there who will help you.  ..I wish I had gone to a meeting because maybe then I would have been able to "stay quit".  "Quitting is one thing... it's 'staying quit' that is a problem."  That's why they tell you it's one day at a time.  I knew how dangerous it was to drink while pregnant.  I saw pictures of babies born with fetal alcohol syndrome.  I STILL DRANK.  After those painful three months I picked up again.  Not in excess--as in not as much as I was used to drinking--but I drank.  Probably a glass or two of wine almost every day in my last trimester.  I remember talking to a mother of 3 who said she drank throughout all of her pregnancies and all of her children came out just fine.  I took that as free license to start drinking again.  Don't do that.  Don't listen to stories you hear about people who managed to give birth to healthy children despite drinking throughout.  If your child is born with a deformity you will have to live with that the rest of your life...I'm not trying to scare you but it's important to acknowledge the stakes.  Do be kind to yourself.  Practice all the forms of self care that don't involve using dangerous substances.  Learn about all the ways to "take the edge off" that don't involve getting messed up.  Bubble baths.  Chocolate covered strawberries.  Netflix binges.  Yoga.  Meditation.  Pedicures.  Massages.  Long walks.  Aromatherapy.  Candlelight.  ..I hope your husband is the most supportive person in the world right now.  I wish you both the absolute best.  This is an awesome adventure.  You are so lucky to have someone take it with you.    ..
If you have health insurance I strongly suggest inpatient treatment at a center. At the very least outpatient treatment. That is honestly what I would do if I were in your shoes and feeling worried about being okay. It is about keeping your baby safe and healthy at this point. 
I think you can get kratom to use as a safe crutch to get through any alcohol withdrawals.  Hopefully its legal in your state.
