-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8gdjzp/hello_looking_for_support_and_guidance/

Hi I'm Kenna and I'm an alcoholic. I've drank heavily these past 10 months due to panic attacks/anxiety/BPD/eating disorder. ..I decided to take my life back two days ago and I'm scared. ..I've been to rehab once had no withdrawal  but I relapsed in February at a concert and drank heavily everyday since. 6-12 beers on rotation. ...I haven't slept much these past two days and I can't eat so I can't tell when I need to go to the doctor. I shake from my anxiety and have panic attacks but not getting physically ill. I just needed guidance on when I should or if I should call my doctor anyways. ..I have been taking Attarax and have Seroquel (both my old detox/anxiety meds). Drinking a lot of water and drinking things with high protein in it no problem. ..Just didn't know if anyone else was here going through the samething? I'm just lost. ..Anything is appreciated thank you. 
----------immediate responses--------

Not exactly but similar. 6-12 beers is a lot especially if you're not very big. My anxiety and minor depression reduced after a week or so. Someone told me to add some sugar to my diet and that helped too. Get to a meeting. Tell your truth there. Someone has a story like yours and can help. Stay sober. It's worth it. I promise. 
I have been there and made it to the other side. We don't do medical advice here but if your withdrawal symptoms start to scare you don't be too scared to seek medical attention. .I'm free today thanks to the support of other alcoholics and AA. AA certainly isn't your only option but it has helped me especially the women's groups. .It does get better. One thing I wish I had done is journal what I was going through to have a permanent record to look back on and remind myself that I don't ever want to be in that situation ever again. .Welcome and I will not drink with you today! 
I just am paranoid and don't want to lose my life to this disease because I'm too scared to go to a doctor and spend they money I don't have. I'm ready to move forward and stop standing still with a bottle in my hand. 
The BPD treatment must come from your Doctor. Some AA people say NO MEDS!! but they aren't Doctors. You've got a lot to deal with but many of us do. Online meetings help. People stay sober that way. Finding someone you can be 100% honest with is a great place to start. Not having any secrets about BPD eating disorders or anything else that has a power over you can ease anxiety symptoms. Keep reaching out. I tried to control anxiety with weed at the end and nothing else. Then it stopped working. AA has got me off of everything and I'm happy today. I hope that will be your story too. 
My advice is to check out your local AA and see your doctor as quickly as possible...The First Step in AA translates to 'realized that any option was better than what we are doing now.'..Good luck.
Thank you all so much. 
