-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8ge444/how_to_help_35_year_old_brother_in_law_with/

My brother in law went to a 30 day rehabilitation program from mid-December thru mid January. We're still confident he can make a full recovery. He's relapsing right now and it turns out his sponsor relapsed recently as well. How the heck do we help him??..I need mental health/addictions counsellor referrals to give to my BIL  peferably in Niagara Ontario. ..It would also be beneficial if sober redditors could give helpful suggestions for our family on how to help him. We want him to make it through. ..Thank you!!..
----------immediate responses--------

30 year old recovering alcoholic here. I can only tell you that in MY experience I did not sober up until I was ready. I had to be done and fully convinced in my own mind that to drinking was no longer worth it. It took a fair amount of bumps and bruises along the way for me to come to this place of wanting to change and be sober. I had someone whom I have immense respect for come into my life and tell me that I never had to drink again if I didn't want to and that he had a solution. This solution he said had worked to bring him out of crippling alcoholism 20 years prior and he thought it would work for me as well. He gave me an Alcoholics Anonymous book and took me to AA meetings where they told me that if I closely followed their simple (but not always easy) program I would have success in attaining soberiety. I have continued going regularly to these meetings working the program and my life has absolutely turned around. I no longer obsess about drinking my finances have improved as well as my family relationships and my reliability at work has been restored. I tried everything I could think of to keep my self sober prior to AA. So far this program is the ONLY thing that has stuck. Best wishes to your BIL. Take him to a meeting! You can even sit in with him as support...Regards.aathrowaway1988
You may want to try posting this in r/AlAnon as well.  That program is specifically geared towards family members and loved ones of alcoholics/addicts.  I'm sure you'll  find some good suggestions here as well though. It's hard for me to have an opinion on what course of action you should tale here. What is helpful to one person could be potentially harmful to another. It is very east to criss that line between loving support and  enabling when it comes to a loved one who suffers from this disease  I'm  only speaking for personal experience here. ..At the height of my addiction I had a loving familygirlfriend and friends who would have done anything to help me stop. And I knew that. So I just pretended like I was trying too stop in order to gain access to whatever resources they had to help me further my addiction. Money shelter  co-dependent emotional support. You name it I took it.  I lied cheated stole and manipulated every person who cared for me. I was a user of people and a taker of things. All along everyone thought I was trying to get sober. I'm not saying this is the case for your BIL  But my only suggestion here  I would be to use a lot of caution  in whatever you do decide to do to help him. ..For me personally I could not even begin to grasp the level of how sick I was  until my  girlfriend had left me  my family would no longer let me in their house and almost every good friend I had stopped returning my phone calls. Man was I pissed at the time but it turns out that was a huge part of what it took for me to even want to get sober at all. It was the most loving thing they could have do me for me at the time. .Every situation is different of course. But I would definitely post over at r/AlAnon. Lots of direct experience with this over there. Good luck to you  and your BIL. We do recover and there is hope for him but he has to be the one to decide. All the best..
Psst!..Try posting over in r/alanon..Al-Anon is a 12 step support group for friends and family of alcoholics. Better yet find a meeting in your area. You'll find people who have been through what you're going through and they'll give you tools to help you recover from this disease's effects on your family...which will also help your brother and your relationship with him.
I wonder if you could give him a lift to some meetings in the area?
Don't give up on the idea of a sponsor there are long term sober people out there willing to help.  Your BIL will have to want it for himself.  Until the take yourself to al-anon.
I'm 35 and have two brothers-in-law who are normies (normal drinkers). I'm a number of years sober but newly sober me would have appreciated them reaching out like this. How kind of you!..What I'd do is keep being you. Be your best self. Us AA's are selfish hurt &amp; fragile. Positive influences can be helpful. But don't try to manage his feelings. That's his responsibility. 
To give extra incentive to him let him know that drinking is related to depression.  I had depression my entire life. It went away after I quit.  No more meds!   Alcohol hightens and triggers depression in me.
