-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8getya/does_aa_help_people_that_have_some_sobriety/

I haven't had a drink in almost a year but have been struggling with loneliness and anxiety. My social life has deteriorated to almost nothing and I need some people to talk to more often. I already spend hundreds of dollars each month on therapy but what I really need are sober friends. ..Will AA help with these issues? Would it be strange to go to my first meeting after a year sober? Would other members believe me or think I'm lying? I've been putting off going to a meeting for months due to anxiety/fear. ..
----------immediate responses--------

yes. 
Yes
AA would be massively helpful with helpful with finding sober friends. And with maintaining sobriety. I 100% absolutely love the fellowship that AA has provided me. 
AA can help with that. It wouldn't be weird to go to a meeting and listen and maybe talk about what you're going through. AA helps us deal with life on life's terms so that we dont have to drink. 
yes. this has been far more helpful than putting down the bottle. 
1000% yes
AA helps me with anxiety and fear too. Helping newcomers get sober is the best feeling ever.
I had about three months before I showed up to AA. Definitely helped me as I was going bonkers at that point.
Strange co-incidence...Speaker today had 2 1/2 years sober before coming into AA...She got tired of 'white knuckling it.'
If AA was just about stopping drinking it'd be a one step program. The reason why it's a 12 step program is because the other eleven help me deal with the selfishness self-centredness (loneliness) dishonesty and fear (anxiety) which will take me back to the drink...Most people coming to AA for the first time are either trying to stop or have just stopped. But many do come after a much longer period of quitting drinking because they find it's quite miserable just stopping drinking without having any kind of program of recovery to deal with the causes.
Friend of mine was sober 5 years before going to a meeting. 
You literally have nothing to lose but fear
There aren't any rules. No one will judge you. Try it on for size. 
AA helped me discover the problem wasn't alcohol. The problem was me AA has helped me learn how to live a happy sober life.  
Yes.  I know people who haven't drank for 20 years come into recovery.  Dry drunk isn't a joke.  You'll be able to help others. 
Definitely! I've known multiple people who had dry time sometimes years of it who came to AA for the emotional recovery. You'd be completely welcomed.
Yes. ..I knew a guy named Gary. He hadn't had a drink in 8 years. I'm that time he managed to lose his kids and his marriage and his job. Because he was a lonely asshole. He referred to that time as being a dry drunk which is a rough place to be...I've had periods of the same but they're shorter because I'm constantly reminded to come back to the principles of this program and I have commitments that keep me in fellowship. I screw it up but I'm not lonely anymore. And I'm not miserable about it either. ..That's something Gary taught me...
Yes it could help you. I struggled with intense anxiety I couldn't even leave my house I went to AA worked the steps and felt better.  It wouldn't be strange and other members I'm sure wouldn't think you're lying.
If it doesn't help you can just bounce and do what you were doing before no problem! Free to try open to all.
Absolutely. At 8mo sober I was more miserable than I'd been my entire life. Now that I've been sober a number of years I realize that quitting alcohol was a small but crucial part of changing my life. And it was my life that needed changing most.
There is no better place for you than in the rooms of AA. You are welcome there and will feel the love as soon as you walk in the door.  You'll identify with many.  You are never alone when a member of AA. Welcome. 
I can totally identify with you..If you read the twelve steps only the first one mentions alcohol. The rest of the steps help you in dealing with fears selfishness loneliness dishonesty etc. .I will be celebrating 5 years sober next month and can tell you that when I'm involved with A.A. and vigorously helping other people get/stay sober I am so much more confident peaceful and happy all around..Give it an honest shot you just may like it! 
The only requirement for membership is a desire to stop drinking
I had 19 months before I went to my second meeting and then attending 1-2 meetings weekly. I know these exact questions. Reading the BB and the 12&amp;12 and meditating in a group has been a great experience. It is like the last personal story in the BB (paraphrased) "AA did not teach him how to stop drinking but instead showed how to live in sobriety".  
You should absolutley get yourself to a meeting.  But i think it will be very helpful of you have low expectations to start out and try to remain very patient.  ..Hopefully you get really lucky and meet great people.  But dont set yourself up for disappointment if you come across some sick people and they try to take advantage of your loneliness.  
For sure thats what happened ro me. Came in late really enjoying it. Thanks
