-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8gm53k/how_do_i_best_support_my_boyfriend/

My boyfriend and I have been dating for almost two years. We for sure have our issues and are working through them. We have a fairly "healthy" relationship but we both struggle with our own issues..My boyfriend has a serious drinking problem. I also struggled with alcohol and I've had to pull myself up on my own. He didn't want to take part in my recovery. ..He hasn't gotten into trouble with the law since we've been together and has seemed to get off fairly easy from past law run-ins. He has had a couple of slaps on the wrist but has a drinking problem and will admit it. He has been going to outpatient treatment for about three months now. He goes four nights per week and we go to a recovery relationships class together with his parents on the weekend. He has not been driving for seven months now because he can't be trusted to drive. He is a 27 year old who got their vehicle taken away from them by their parents. I know it's sad but they didn't know what to do. He was at a point that he would have killed someone. His drinking was/ is out of control....He came around to admitting that the drinking was out of his control. He seemed to be doing well but not necessarily applying himself. He was able to stay sober for over a month. Now he has relapsed several times within the past week. I know that this is something that he needs to do and all that I can really do is support him....I have been sober for almost a year. We are fairly active people so when we are together we do things outside and we don't make everything about the sobriety. I know that it is hard for him because he isn't spending time with friends and he is embarrassed to tell people about his sobriety. I am trying to stay supportive without nagging him but I know that I can be controlling and rude at times. I'm not perfect but I try to treat him with respect....Tonight he relapsed.. again. He called me and was yelling about his parents talking about hurting himself and saying that people only care about him if he is sober. I am struggling to know what to do. I notified his parents about his words about hurting himself. I don't take that as a joke. I know that he is disappointed in himself. We are all disappointed in him...He continues to blame his brain chemicals and keeps saying that he doesn't have a choice and it's not as easy as I make it sound. I agree that the addiction is more than a choice but at some point isn't it a choice? Once you fall hard enough don't you choose which path you go down? I feel like him continuing to say that it is an addiction and brain chemicals is a way for him to pass off responsibility. I'm not arguing that he is wrong but we do end up arguing because we both see the journey differently. ..What else can I do to help him on this journey? Each person's recovery is different. What has worked for him either doesn't work for him or he isn't willing to try. I'm wondering if anyone else has some input....TL;DR- My boyfriend has a drinking problem and is going to treatment. He has relapsed again and I'm wondering if there is something more that I can be doing to help him. Does anyone have a recovery story or something that has helped them?
----------immediate responses--------

Is in-patient an option? Does he have a sponsor? What about supplementing IOP with a 90-in-90 AA meeting run? Does he call you or anybody else before he relapses?
Unpopular suggestion is he willing to try the sinclair method?
A friend with long term sobriety told me that every one in AA should go to a few Al-Anon meetings because we all have relationships with other alcoholics...
Go to Alanon. Set boundaries to protect yourself and your recovery. Focus on your own self care!!!
I think the best thing for you to do if your in AA NA Al-Anon is to go to a meeting. Find your support group and work on yourself. You can care about him but care for yourself first.   Just a suggestion.  
