-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8gs9ac/struggling/

Am currently sitting outside the grocery store in my car. I need to go in to get laundry soap but I'm worried that once I'm in the store I'll head straight for the liquor aisle. This is only my 2nd day without a drink. Feel like a loser for it being this hard :(
----------immediate responses--------

You are not a loser. Early sobriety is not easy but IT IS worth it. .I play the tape forward when I'm tempted. How will things end up if I drink? What will happen? What led to me getting sober? Am I willing to not feel as helpless and hopeless as I did while not drinking? .If you need to you can order pantry items on amazon prime. It may take a little longer but if you need to do that for your sobriety today I think you can justify it. 
We all struggle in life early sobriety sucks. God willing you do it once and that's it  left foot  right foot. We got here usually because our life was in need of change  to put it bluntly our life was in the shitter. The only way through to the some degree of happiness and sanity is just doing it. Get to meetings  everyday stay away from the old people places and things.  Life will get better. And most of all  don't drink. It can be done  knuckleheads like me do it all the time. 
Thanks all. Glad I found this page.
I'm proud of you. You stopped and thought about it. You came here. You made a post. Those are all positive actions. Keep it up. We don't need to drink today. Just worry about today. We can do it. You are not alone. 
You've found your jumping off point. Once I made it to meetings I never drank again and neither do you need to. You have a reason to go into that place where alcohol is I believe you can go straight to the soap and back out again but you can also choose to not go in and just to go home.
a good idea is to stay well fed. shop after eating too. 
Friend I believe whatever decision you made in the past hours will remain in the past hours but the struggle will stay for a little while longer. I hope you are doing better now..Walking by that aisle/shop is strangely hard but I wish to believe you can overcome it soon good luck out there!
My sponsor would tell me to pray and ask for protection beforehand then go about my legitimate errand. He might also suggest calling another alcoholic in the program and ask how they're doing while I'm shopping. 
How are you doing today? Can you get to a meeting or call another AA?
