-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8h9nv3/need_advice_w_intervention/

Here's the gist of it...my boyfriend has struggled with alcohol fairly consistently for the past year (he's 30). In January of this year his family had enough and told him if he didn't go to rehab they were choosing to disconnect from him. He obliged but I feel it was only because he didn't want to lose them. He completed a 30-day rehab during the beginning of this year and things were good for a couple of months. ..Fast forward to April of this year...I found he had Kratom and Phenibut that he said he was using to help keep him away from alcohol. I believe he has been abusing both of these substances and this past week found a bottle of vodka...Here's my question--his family and myself have had enough and it's getting to the point that this is dangerous. Before he went to rehab he was hospitalized with a BAC of .37. If it gets back to that point there's no telling what could happen. I am thinking of confronting him and then leaving until he decides to get serious about being sober. His family has written letters to him (they're in a different state) which will be presented to him in a couple of days. Is it too much to pull everything out from under him at once i.e. family and myself (we've been together 6 years) or should I just leave first and then if he still doesn't get help bring his family in?
----------immediate responses--------

Not a huge fan of the whole intervention process. It's his life  he's aware of the consequences. In my humble opinion an alcoholic needs to hit a bottom whatever it takes for them to know..... it's over  I can't do this any longer. All options have been exhausted. The longer people rescue them the longer it takes for the alcoholic to realize that the jig is up. Not helping a love one is incredibly tough but essential if they are going to hit their bottom. The organization alanon is filled with beautiful people that can help you with matters such as this. I wish good things to you and yours. 
Ask this in /r/alanon
First you should look up Al-Anon.  It's an off shoot of AA created by the founders' wives to help the friends/families of addicts...Second only he can decide he needs help.  You can't make him see what he doesn't want to.   
Intervention isn't part of the AA program.  We don't help people who don't want it.   
Your leaving may be enough to get his attention.  It may not.  Either way he'll find his bottom. Save yourself.
He will hit rock bottom someday hopefully before its too late. But dont let him take you down with him...
Phenibut withdrawal is a very real thing.  Tolerance to that drug develops very quickly...https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3604470/
