-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8hfzmu/relapse_dreams/

How do you deal with relapse dreams?  I hadn't had one for months but the one last night really bothered me.  I guess I'm thankful to have the reminder that isn't my life anymore.  But it has really shaken me.  I thanked God for the reminder of what can happen if I lose focus but I'm still feeling anxious. I texted my sponsor and she said  Thanks for sharing .  I texted a few other members and they said they don't have them...So what do others do to shake that feeling of anxiousness and doom?  Dive into the Big Book?  Keep a more conscious contact with God until the feeling passes?  Not give it a second thought?  This has left me feeling gross and uncomfortable in my own skin again.
----------immediate responses--------

I get them about once a month. I always thank God for the reminder of the guilt and shame I would feel upon an actual relapse judging from the feelings I get just from the dream. .Share about it and I would be amazed if no one in your home group has ever had a drunk dream.
they go away over time..
Eventually you start having dreams where you are offered but say no. I wouldn't be concerned about relapse dreams if they bother you talk about them and vent but they mean about as much as a sex dream about a friends girl uncomfortable sure but nothing to be concerned about.
They can be scary...I remember lying in bed shaking until I realized that it was only a dream...Share with others at a meeting and hear their stories.
I have them so often that in the dream I'm often acknowledging that I'm going to need to take a newcomer chip at my next meeting. I like to think of them as a good thing my mind reminding me of where I'm at and where I used to be.
I Echo what someone else said. Please share at meetings. Can you get to one today?
Go help others is the key to the whole program that's how they stayed sober back in the day when AA worked really well in the 30s. They would do all the steps in a couple of days and then spend most of their time helping others it truly is the key.  I forgot about those nightmares I use to get them and they scared the shit out of me. Shows you how the disease centers in the mind. Mine went away haven't had any for many many years I'm 9 yrs sober.  Just dive into the big book/program go find a newcomer and help him/her find meetings or whatever. The more we help others the more we get out of self... The noise stops and we live a serene life..... That my experience when I work the program anyways
I know the feeling. I'm not sure there's any immediate fix though I too look for that. This too will pass.
I remember frantically texting my sponsor after my last relapse dream at 19/20 months sober. His response  I'm more concerned with what I do when I'm awake than when I'm dreaming .That's the kind of levelled headed honesty 26years brings someone and exactly what I needed to hear to stop obsessing about it while I was awake. 
Keep it simple. ..Remember you have an alcoholic mind. It's not like others' brains. Reminding myself of this fact is enough to get over things like this typically. ..Talking with a fellow or your sponsor is the way to go if you feel the need. ..Thanks for sharing!
