-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8hw7v5/frustrated_with_nonalcoholic_partner/

I'm now in my third year of sobriety. I met my current partner when I was in relapse and was that way for about six months. He was the primary voice that pointed out I had a drinking problem and needed help. I realized this was the truth and I sought sobriety. ..I had attempts before but never anything like this. For the first time in my life I got a sponsor that I stuck with and I worked all my steps. I moved in later to a sponsor with 39 years of sobriety and I am working my steps again. And my life began to radically change. ..I know you all know what I mean... I had lost complete custody of my two young children and I now have 50/50 joint custody with my ex-husband. I once hated my ex-husband and now we have a supportive friendship in raising our girls. I went from a dump of an apartment in a bad area to now having a three bedroom apartment in a decent area. I am finishing my master's degree in education to become a teacher. I have relationships with my family again. My parents tell me I am at the best place I've ever been in my life that they feel like they have their sweet girl back that I once was before the drinking and using. I work with others I have a Homegroup where I was once isolated and resentful I am now a friend a sister a mother. I belong to a church and have a thriving relationship with the God of my understanding. I even embrace the concept of sexual abstinence before marriage as the right path for me. I have changed my entire life and continue to strive for more change. ...But I am not perfect. I have not graduated from AA. I am still recovering in layers. It has recently come to light in my relationship that a defect of mine to sometimes launch into explosive rages and say terrible things has to be addressed. I am willing to accept responsibility for this defect to seek outside help for it in therapy and have made an appointment with a therapist that I'll be paying a hefty amount out of pocket for as I'm currently uninsured. When I see that I am wrong I promptly admit it and I seek to take prayerful action to resolve it. This is the best I can do and I try to do my best. ..My partner a long time ago tried about three al-anon meetings and decided he didn't want to work the program. He has gone to celebrate recovery a handful of times. So this has left me feeling for a long time like we are missing out on the benefits of working a tandem program together and growing together in recovery. I feel like I am doing all the work I need to do on my program and he has no program nor anything like real understanding of what my recovery means. ..This brings us to the issue I'm currently facing. I can behave very badly when I get angry and we have conflict. I am ashamed of this. I struggle with feeling hopeless and horrible. Instead of giving in to these feelings I chose to get into action to address the issue and to try to place my hope in that. Because I know I can't afford to entertain those negative emotions; it's like getting sucked into a black void and if I really believe I am hopeless then that desire to drink could swiftly follow. I've picked myself up admitted I'm wrong sought to address the wrong. I see it as just another layer in my recovery. I've faced everything else I've already faced so I can now face this. My experience tells me I am not hopeless. ..But it is hard right now having a partner with no program no al-anon no sponsor. On my good days when I  behaving in good ways he is sure about me wants a future with me. We were just out looking at houses together this past week. But when I have a bad day and I behave badly...he said something rude and hateful to me and after about three or four hours of being in control of my emotions as his comment went unresolved I finally blew up at him and swore at him in anger and frustration... he changes his mind. He is uncertain. He is confused and afraid. He doesn't want to spend his life with a hateful person. ..I calmly explained to him how I felt... that I was sorry for this part of me that it was my responsibility that I had taken the steps to begin to work on it...but his lack of faith in me in us his complete absence of a program or a sponsor his resistance to even being willing to participate in therapy with me to support and understand and to look at himself.... is just awful. He is demanding sympathy and compassion from me for what I've put him through and continue to put him through. And I've apologized taken responsibility and taken action...it's dangerous for me to wallow and grovel and despair in how bad I am and lament how terribly I've hurt him like he wants. I get it I do...but all I can do is move forward. ..He says he doesn't understand my recovery my issues. I'm like if you don't read the book come to class and study  you will fail the test. He claims that this anger issue has been around for a long time (and it has) and he's told me to deal with it for a long time now and it has nothing to do with my recovery from alcoholism. I've tried to explain that everything in my life is a part of my recovery from alcoholism and I've worked hard for going on three years now to clear up so much wreckage of my past that I'm just now getting to the point of being able to face and address it because I've been working my way to it through a lot of other things. ..But he doesn't understand because he won't go to al-anon and work the steps and get a sponsor. He doesn't understand because to him it's my job to recover not our job to recover together. I am doing everything every day to the best of my ability to strive for sobriety on every level. I'm not perfect but I never stop striving and being responsible. I feel that this is my part. And I don't know how to attend this pity party he is throwing for himself because getting into that despair and hopelessness that he's all about right now is dangerous for me. I have to keep moving; I cannot sink. And I don't know what to do about him. 
----------immediate responses--------

You might need couples counseling.  The thing is we can only control our own words and actions.   Everyone/everything else is out of our control. 
Why does your partner need a program? Why can't he live life as a normal person?
Look at this from his point of view... He wants to be happy with you but if you rage and scream at him  why would he stay for that?  My husband used to treat me that way and I finally threatened to leave if he did it again... He doesn't deserve to be treated that way and shouldn't have to stay and take it while you work on your issues.  Those are your issues  not his.  ..Seriously congrats on getting where you are now  it's not easy!  But get the raging under control and don't expect someone else to be your punching bag while you do. 
Honestly I think your trying to push a square peg into a round hole - AA and AlAnon isn't for everyone and some people just have no desire to improve themselves especially if the drinking /addiction didn't affect them. ..If it's important to you to have a partner in life that works a program then that is the person you should be looking for...I am married 20+ years to an active alcoholic have 1 adult and 2 teenage sons my parents are active and in my life....  no one in my immediate family works any type of program and it's never occurred to me to ask them to (outside of wanting my husband to get help for his alcoholism before he dies of it - which I want but do not verbalize).
Therapy is a great idea. I would start solo however to address your immediate issues. Jumping into couples work without self examination might not be advisable. As always ask for and take your therapists's advice. ..You might also ask about issues of co-dependence and control. Your ideas about how life should be how a relationship should function are yours alone. Your partner is free to make his own decisions Al-Anon or not. Your recovery is yours alone. Attempts to work on anyone beside yourself won't bear fruit. ..My best wishes to you. 
