-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8hweo5/43_days_sober_and_struggling/

Hello all this is my first post here. As the title says I am 43 days sober today after 6 years of problem drinking (2 of which I was alcohol dependent). I started going to AA meetings 6 weeks ago but I am really struggling to stay sober today - it seems to be getting harder not easier as I naively thought..I began drinking to help escape difficult emotions and have been offered therapy to start soon which I am hopeful about although have been in and out of therapy for the last 12 years. I am worried that a relapse will decrease the efficacy of therapy and worried I won't be able to stop again but right now I am simply not coping with my emotions at all..Sorry for the rambling my head is all over the place. Any thoughts very much appreciated.
----------immediate responses--------

Just get through today.  Tomorrow you may feel better.  Call someone from your AA group and have a chat or go for a coffee.  That always helps me. 
This is why AA suggests a '90/90.'  ..I was still detoxing after the first three months [had a false positive test for pot because I was losing weight and THC is stored in fat cells]...I suggest you get more involved in your local AA.  Do they take AA meetings into detoxes?  Seeing people with less time then you have is always a good way to realize how far you have come.
Get a sponsor talk to them regularly.  Get a co-sponsor talk to them regularly.  Jump into the bigbbook with both feet.   Get after it.  You are worth it the program can provide you with a new way of life that you cannot imagine.  It takes work and effort on your part. 
I am 143 days and I'm still struggling. I totally get where you're coming from. The Big Book says we discovered that alcohol was simply a symbol (symptom) of our underlying problems. We think when we remove booze and other substances we will be well. For a few this appears to be true... but for most of us sobriety makes things worse for a while. ..Suddenly we have no escape from the emotions and thoughts that have been plaguing us all along. For me it feels like I'm in a cage backed into a corner and I have no recourse. I don't want to drink but I don't want to be sober either. ..Around the 90 day mark the sun started to peek out from behind the clouds for me. Glimpses of freedom followed by another round of fear and captivity. Until I actually reached out to people when I started drowning I stayed drowned for a long while. ..But what I am doing seems to be helping. Keeping that darkness at bay.  Someone described my disease as a giant black octopus that had all its tentacles wrapped tightly around me. Blocking out the sunlight keeping me in darkness. When I pull of a tentacle to see to breathe... the rest of the tentacles grip tighter. Alone I am fighting to pull the grip off in the darkness. ..When I reach out to another alcoholic they come in and bring the light with them. I expose the darkness by sharing my feelings and thoughts and they cast some extra light on it. When faced with that light the dark bastard is exposed and he loosens his grip. I can breathe again. But he never goes away... he lingers there one tentacle two tentacles just loosely hanging around. The minute I start to embrace the darkness isolate listen to the committee he has a chance to strangle me again.  ..So I go to meetings I have a sponsor who talks to me about my thoughts and appeals to my logical side I have another "sponsor" who talks to me about spiritual things who appeals to my emotions and that part of me that is vulnerable and afraid. I have a couple of people in the program that I try to just be friends with to have conversations with about life. I'm working my steps slowly. I'm hitting the gym at least 5 days a week. I'm drinking a shit ton of water and eating good food. All of these things are bringing some light into my dark cloudy world and the grip is loose more days than not now. ..You're not alone. You're not any more broken than anyone else. Your sobriety your recovery is your own... sometimes quick and sometimes slow. I pray for you to have the patience to get through the tough stuff and the courage to reach out to others when you're drowning.   
For me I would go to AA and treatment and every time the more time I got the more I wanted to drink. The obsession grew instead of subsiding like I thought. It wasn't until I completely gave myself to AA and God (as I see him) studied the big book like my life depended on it and did exactly what the first 100 men and women did to get sober. I did the steps like my life depended on it because I knew it did. I went to AA everyday I prayed every morning and night even though I didn't really believe in God I did it anyways I helped others I got a home group and I got relief from the obsession. I am 9 yrs sober and I have zero desire to drink I have a family and wonderful life all because of AA and the fact I gave it 100%......half measures availed us us nothing. Hope my story help you a bit. 
I don't ask these questions or say these things to be trite. ..One day at a time for me when I was 43 days sober was often 1 minute at a time. I had my share of days "white knuckling" it. ..When are you going to a meeting today? Do you have anyone in the area to call? Have you started working the steps yet? ..For lack of anything better to say about it its not abnormal in the beginning to feel like you're describing. I did. It took me maybe 3 months to be able to sleep a full night. I had to rigorously put effort into sobriety whenever I started to feel shitty. It was the only thing that helped me feel better. Talk to your sponsor \(get one if you don't have one\) about getting to work on the steps. When I felt like you're describing I typically did \(and still do\) two things: ..1\) I put pen to paper as outlined in our book. ..2\) I'd meditate. Just breathe. Sit still and breathe for 10\-20 minutes. Watching my breath go in and out. Gently reminding myself to focus on breathing when my mind wanders \(it does that kind of thing\). 
Let's keep it simple. Do you have a sponsor? Have you worked the steps? How many AA meetings are you going to? ..I'm glad you posted here as you helped me today.
One of the actions that helps but seems to elude many of us is to be in community with other people. Real presence and contact. Talk. Visit. Exist with people preferably others who encourage (or at least don't detract from) your living in sobriety...Connection is anathema to addiction...I know I treated (and still treat) my loneliness with isolation. It's hard but necessary.
Reach out to a human and get to a meeting. People in recovery want to help you stay there. It is worth it. Hard work but totally worth it.
the first few months were a rollercoaster ride for me. my emotions were so up and down i genuinely thought i was insane at least once a day. the highest highs and the lowest lows. it will eventually even out. i just tried to enjoy the highs and during the lows just kept repeating to myself that it was temporary and the negative feelings were just my brain trying to get me to drink again but weren't 'real'. that helped.
Just saw this. Did you make it through that rough day intact? I had terrible emotional swings for the first year and a half long after I thought they should have stopped. ..Hang in there. Hold on. The end result is worth it. 
