-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8i27x2/met_potential_sponsor_she_tells_me_to_call_every/

I've been sober for over 8 months now but have recently decided to give AA a chance because I don't think I can do this on my own. I've been going to meetings for about 3 weeks now so my knowledge of the program is pretty elementary. I just picked up a Big Book last week and I think I've found a home group but I'm struggling to find a sponsor. ..I approached a woman last week after a meeting who raised her hand offering sponsorship at the end of the meeting. She gave me some instructions to follow including calling her every day or at least texting her when I was busy and made plans to sit down to talk the following Wednesday. I've done everything she's asked the meditation prayers reading and I've even called every day except Friday and today when I had work and family in town but texted her to give her the lowdown of what was going on. However this woman has only called me back once. I really appreciated the talk we had but I'm a little confused as to why she's telling me to call her every day and I don't hear back. I've even texted asking if she still wants me to call every day but no response. We're supposed to meet tomorrow but I still haven't heard from her even after texting trying to confirm plans...Is there something I'm not getting? Is this like a Jedi mind trick? Am I supposed to keep calling without a response? Is this another unspoken rule in the program? I usually follow rules to a T and I try to avoid miscommunication so I'm at a loss here. I really just want to get to know someone who can walk me through the program. I don't even fully understand the steps or what I should be doing in the first few weeks. Should I keep pressing or try for another sponsor? 
----------immediate responses--------

Sponsors handle things differently. There are no rules or protocol. Check with her tomorrow. Keep checking in with her as she's asked. It helps you stay connected and sober.
I get my sponsees to check in every day it's what my sponsor did with me. Its an accountability thing. I tell my guys I don't always answer or call back but if they need to talk leave a message. I'm one of the rare few sponsors who call my sponsees as well. If it's not working for you just find another sponsor. They don't have to out their hand up to offer usually those people have too many sponsees and don't call back or have time for you. Listen at the meetings when you hear your story or someone who sounds similar to you. Find someone you can relate to then just ask them if they can be your temporary sponsor. It's tough to find a good sponsor but it's really worth it. Just keep this one until you find a better one. 
Its a really great post packed with great questions.What I was trying to do initially to stay sober was to form new habits and be accountable to someone else.When i was new and my sponsor didnt call me back immediately my instincts said how dare he!  After being sober a while i now realize people have lives and boy does your life get full after some sober time.Discuss tomorrow with your sponsor.You are not locked into staying with this person and you are free to choose someone new at anytime.Keep doing what youre doing.Love.
So I get the "check in" bit but my last two sponsors... First was so busy that I soon grew a bit resentful that I never heard from him. His in-box would fill up he wouldn't respond to texts and I had to drop him. He's a nice guy and doesn't raise his hand anymore when the call for people who can sponsor goes out at the homegroup. He's just too busy...The second... Here's one who was an enigma. Was friendly and interested (we're both homegroup members) in getting to know me as I was he. He has a long time without drinking and I thought he'd be valuable as a sponsor. He is not employable due to a long term illness but has a very stable arrangement and family life- some things that I myself want. The moment though that I started calling I realized it wasn't to be. I'd ask how he was and get immediate "fine how are you?" but no conversation. I could say "I'm feeling a bit stressed" and more than once he completely shut me down with "okay well go to a meeting pray and read your Big Book." After several months I learned nothing of him very little from him and he nothing of me. I did a fourth step with him and when done we prayed together but I got no feedback. No discussion of patterns that I'd heard from other people and their experience. I dropped him. A week after he came up to me to make amends that he expected me to call "when I needed help." I don't believe he understands the nature of obsession in others- or at least in me. By the time I "need help" it's far too late for a simple phone call to do anything. ..I did have the opportunity to hear a short lead that mentioned sponsorship in a way that I like. The lead and his sponsor have lunch together about once a week. I've heard of others that have close and/or valuable relationships with their sponsors. I have close friends that aren't in the program and love working on my relationships so I know it's possible. It's just not been what's been put in front of me. ..If I'm not getting what I need from a relationship that's supposed to be mutually beneficial I try to fix it- I try to make my needs known that they can be met. With sponsors on the other hand I want a certain minimum compatibility availability and conversation. They need to demonstrate at least a slight interest in me and respond to mine in them. If I have to fix the entire show it's not to be. ..There are enough folks out there that I'll find what I'm looking for. 
I see a good sponsor as someone who has time and who will give and take the way a healthy person would...When I had my previous sponsor \(before he moved\) he was lax and told me to call if I needed to but he would return calls if I did call.  In the meantime he would tell me how to do the next step and we would check in occasionally until I was ready to go over it and then we would find a time to meet...Back in AA's early days a sponsor was someone who almost immediately started presenting the steps.  There were not many meetings so it tended to be more intensive from what I have read.  Nowadays I think sponsors treat meeting attendance as a bit of a babysitter.  If you are going to meetings they can feel you are probably all right. And they are probably right but it can hurt to feel ignored...A lot of people do not know how to set boundaries and it sounds possible that she is overwhelmed and possible that you assumed she meant that your calls would be answered...Best way to find out is to ask......Here is an AA pamphlet on sponsorship... [https://www.aa.org/assets/en\_US/p\-15\_Q&amp;AonSpon.pdf](https://www.aa.org/assets/en_US/p-15_Q&amp;AonSpon.pdf)
I only got 3 months but I would look for someone else but I would tell her the truth as to why.
find a new one. yes all sponsors have their own style but they shouldn't leave you hanging whether it be not returning calls or not communicating clearly to you how your communications with one another will be set up. if it's a  call me and leave voicemails just to check in  that should have been made clear. that is not really enough for me personally nor would it be for most people. there are a lot of unhealthy people in the program. the thing that nobody tells you is that you have to navigate.
i wouldn't want a sponsor who didn't call me back. i'd say find another one. but also get numbers of other people in the fellowship you need to build a support network.
I had a sponsor who did this. It worked for some people but I found a new sponsor who does call me back and it's great.
I'd look for another. Sometimes it takes a while to find a good fit. I'd also ask someone to be a temporary sponsor so you aren't alone. I do not sponsor but I do temporary sponsor. 
Good decision to try AA and kudos for asking someone for their help. Not everyone can pass along to you AA's program of recovery. If this one can show you in the literature where it suggests calling someone daily then do that. Otherwise find a sober woman who can convey to you our program wiithout ineffective add-ons and weirdness.
Calling and not getting a call back isn't abnormal especially for very active sponsors...I think I went two weeks once with my previous sponsor diligently leaving him messages every day - and THAT was the key ... he picked up the phone and called me about 15 minutes after I left a message at the end of that two week period ... it was odd since he didn't typically call me at all ... I started by asking "is everything ok?" ... he said yes and responded by asking me the same!  Apparently I sounded a little off in my last message ... after some talking and digging we figured out something WAS bothering me pretty seriously actually and I was totally oblivious to it!..But for him having heard my voice and my tone every day in a message for the two weeks prior he picked up on something I wasn't even aware of!..And when I discussed it in my next aftercare session at my treatment centre the aftercare guy (can't remember the title) said that little issue could have very easily been the start of a path to a relapse had we not weeded it out and nipped it in the bud!..Now no response when trying to confirm plans to meet - that would drive me a little batty!  But other than that I wouldn't worry!  :-)
Old AA joke...You can change your sponsor your home group and/or your Higher power...Just don't change your clean date...There is no AA rule book on sponsorship.  I know a woman who boasts about how many fights she gets into with her sponsor.  The tear into each other and reconcile over and over.  Works for them...I chose my sponsor because he was someone I would have hung out with if we were both drunk...You can call as many people as you want to ehlp you in AA.  Some people have one sponsor they talk to for family and social problems and a 'step sponsior' who helps them with AA work.
