-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8i9szw/how_does_anyone_realistically_afford_treatment/

Hey everyone! I have posted here before and on r/addiction and I've pretty much just complained/vented about my frustrations of being an addict. I just had my most recent relapse and it seriously felt like my world was coming to an end. The psychological withdrawals were taking it's toll on me \(negative self\-talk suicidal ideations etc.\)...Well I am genuinely sick and tired of repeating the same mistakes and I want to seek help \(I am already in therapy but feel like I need something more intensive.\) I recently inquired at a treatment center called New Directions for Women that seems phenomenal. The intake manager suggested I do 30 residential/detox and then continue with intensive outpatient treatment afterwards for maintenance. Well residential detox in itself is $19000 and 1 month of outpatient treatment is $4000. Even with insurance coverage I don't know how anyone affords this!..I am your average middle class person and I definitely cannot afford this. It's no wonder so many people don't get sober! Opinions advice comments? How did you get sober?..Thanks for reading :\)
----------immediate responses--------

I went to AA. It was free and it worked the first time for me after 20 years drinking and abject hopelessness.
So is that the cost after your insurance covers a portion? That sounds like the amount that it would cost as a self-paying patient. Depending on your area a lot of treatments accept health insurance for a majority of the cost but it really just depends on the  specifics  of what you have and how the facility is run. If you are worried about using in the immediate future I would look into a detox. Even if you aren't coming down hard it can provide enough of a barrier against using so that you can figure out your next move and a lot of them are connected with treatment centers so it's an easy transition. Some people honestly can't afford treatment and that is where some treatment centers will be charitable and help those that can't afford it while some have to stick to their bottom line. 
I wasted my own $ (not insurance or Daddy's) twice on rehab programs i/p &amp; o/p. You have the option to do the same. If you attend the finest available and ask for the best advice they have on hand you'll be told that to succeed you'll need to involve yourself in a recovery program...which you can do now. For a couple of $ in the basket a few times a week...You can pay the 19k a few times like I did and drink afterwards or you can get sober for good for pocket change. Choose well.
Have you tried aa or na and followed their suggestions of attending meetings and getting a sponsor to work the steps? 
I pay $1/day for AA and it works just great!
I went to 2 of the top treatment centers in North which cost over $50000. That my parents paid. I drank the day I left both of them why? Because I am the alcoholic they speak of in the big book Alcoholics Anonymous. I went to AA like all day everyday its free and way better than treatment. I'd do 2 or 3 meetings a day read the big book everyday pray call people get exercise. I'd make a list of those things and do it everyday. I did the steps right away exactly as they are written in the big book (Joe and Charlie tapes help a lot to understand).... That was 9 yrs ago. I was a hopeless alcoholic on deaths door hopeless....... AA saved my life way better than any treatment center from my experience.... Give it a shot like a full out hard core shot all day everyday... Make AA your free treatment center.... Good luck
"Make aa your free treatment center" I love that!
I suggest you try and commit to the AA '90/90' program.  Try and make 90 meeting in your first 90 days.  Get phone numbers and call three addicts a day.  Get a sponsor and get a home group...AA was getting people sober long before rehabs and detoxes and pretty much every rehab I know of will push you to go into AA anyway...Good luck.
It's not that complicated.  
I borrowed the $8000 it cost me for 35 days inpatient.  It was easy to pay back when I wasn't using money anymore for drugs and alcohol...At one point I figured I had spent over $250000 on alcohol and drugs over a 20 year period.
