-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8ic846/i_think_this_is_it_for_me/

I honestly feel like I can't live through this one..I relapsed and it was the worst one yet..I ruined my sisters marriage ostracized myself from her and her husband and their kids I'm written off by my entire family and I'm completely alone. I live in California and they all live in New Jersey..The only person I know out here is my ex fianc  and she's also done with me..I'm thinking very calmly but very seriously about suicide. .I've been to a dozen rehabs so many emergency rooms a bunch of detoxes I've done meetings and worked all the steps with a sponsor I've been on Antabuse and Vivitrol and Naltrexone....I cannot stop drinking. And this time I created the worst mess of my life..I don't think I'm gonna make it through this..Not looking for sympathy or karma or anything at all..Just needed to write this out.
----------immediate responses--------

You've been through the toughest times. I can empathize with how you feel. As they say: *"When you're going through hell don't stop!"* No matter how many ERs if it takes going to 75 detoxes if it takes another 90 meetings in 90 days we go to any lengths. We never say die we never give up no matter what happens. ..But right now you probably need to take it easy. And I'd definitely encourage you to talk to a counselor right away. Call 1\-800\-273\-8255 Suicide Prevention because two heads are better than one. All the best to you. Take the best care of yourself during this. You'll pull through you just watch.
Keep coming back as they say in AA.... I completely relate to your story I'd been to multiple treatment centers in and out of AA for many years did the steps with a sponsor prescriptions councilling etc etc. My entire family was done with me I had no friends and only a bottle and shit load of self pity...in the end every time I drank I ended up in the hospital some times for 5 days with liver specialists saying I must quit or die and I'm lucky I'm not already dead then I'd drink on the way home from the hospital.. I knew I was done I knew without a shadow of a doubt that no one could help me I was beyond human aid... Well there's no atheists when the plane is going down and my plane was going down. I got on my knees and prayed honestly prayed to whatever might be out there I offered myself and my life to that power and I would do anything needed to stay sober.... After that I did AA with a vengeance I did it all day everyday I did 2 or 3 meetings a day I read the big book I prayed I helped others (big help to me) I did exactly what they did in the book to get sober no more half assing it I gave it everything I had and more...... That was 9 yrs ago I not only stopped drinking but I lost the desire to drink. I haven't wanted a drink in years! I not only have my family back I started one of my own. I have a wife dog and an amazing little girl. I own my own home and lots of toys (boat bikes jetskis etc)..... I was in and out of AA for years most don't get it the first few times. Just keep coming back. The only mistake you can make is to not go back to AA. I guarantee you AA will work if you do EXACTLY what the first 100 Men and women did to get sober (it's in the big book)..... You're just working on step one right now I think perhaps you have it... That hopelessness that knowledge that no human power can stop you from picking up the first drink maybe you can see that now..... I know it doesn't feel like it but that's a good thing. In the book it says "we stood at the turning point we asked his protection and care with complete abandon"  this is we're I was at when I got on my knees and turned my life over to "god" with complete abandon...... AA saved my life and gave me a life beyond my wildest dreams honestly.... Please go to a meeting and send me a private message after you do. I'd appreciate it if you did that it would really help me.... Thank you and God bless. 
You can always pray on it. And yes please call the hotline. You are worth it. 
How much sober time can you get?  Can you build on it hour by hour.   Look on the positives... You can come here and write coherently you're motivated to stop and engage in recovery.  Just reach out a little more and try again. 
Whenever I hear a low bottom story at an AA meeting I turn it around and point out that Heath Ledger Whitney Houston and Amy Winehouse were all doing very well and all had good relationships with family and friends when they died...Whatever the problems you have with you family your biggest problem is the drinking.  If you have been sober for one day then you know how the program works...Just try not to drink for one day.  Don't worry about tomorrow.  Just do one day.
all you can so is keep trying. you see/hear success stories all around you. you can always start over. sentence yourself to inpatient and get some clean time and go from there. .
You can do this I swear. I hit a low myself and had the exact same feelings that I'm never going to be able to stop and living this way is not worth it. But once you get past a few hurdles you see how wrong you were. This too shall pass. You can do it. 
You've been in my thoughts all morning. I truly hope you are ok. Mentally and physically. I don't know if you have tried it but pot helped me to quit. There are studies (limited) to show that there is promise in it. I didn't like it at first as it gives a different mindset then alcohol does. And we drink for the comfortable effects of alcohol. But drinking was certainly wreaking havoc on my life so I was going to keep trying. After the first week it was nice to know I had a crutch to go to. Then I was smoking nearly every day because of my desire for alcohol. I would say week 3 I started to feel like I could actually do this. That I didn't need alcohol as much as I thought I did. A few months later and I still didn't drink and was barely smoking pot. Now I smoke maybe once a month. But there was a lot of emotional self development in there too. Bottom line if you are at the end and haven't tried it I highly recommend it. 
On the main page a few days ago I saw a thread on Bill W &amp; within a number of people with big upvotes said AA's out of date &amp; unnecessary because we have pills that can fix alcoholism...Then I read this from OP:.&gt;I've been on Antabuse and Vivitrol and Naltrexone... I cannot stop drinking..This is why we need to help each other folks. We're the only ones who can help many real alcoholics!..OP if you're ready to stop get to a meeting get a sponsor work the steps &amp; keep coming back. I was in a similar place to you a number of years ago. I spent time in padded rooms &amp; had my shoelaces taken away. I knew I couldn't drink but I also couldn't stop. I thought AA was a crock of shit because I'd "tried" it in my 20's. ..Turns out AA had the solution for me. Today I'm married with two beautiful boys a huge house cars 6-figure job &amp; all the creature comforts. But most importantly by far I have peace of mind and most of the time I'm happy. That's a far cry from those padded rooms &amp; I AM SO GRATEFUL.
I would seriously start reading about ayahuasca.  ..If you havent tried that then please do lots of research about this and hold yourself together long enough until you can do it. ..
