-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8ij23b/rehabagain_worth_it_feeling_hopeless/

This would be my second-go at rehab for drinking (vodka almost a fifth a day). Well technically the third attempt; I relapsed immediately after my first time and then AMA'd the second time due to my anxiety.  (May and June 2017). Been silently and slowly suffering since. I never took it seriously. But now I am realizing I need true help. I am 26 years old. I feel like there is truly NO helping me. I'm a mess. I seemingly have it together but inside I do not. I can go to all of the AA meetings and therapy appointments in the world; I have. Whats going to stop me from drinking before or after them? Clearly nothing. Because this is my life now. ..I do not have any legal issues or anything against me. I do not have children. The decision to possibly go inpatient is purely voluntary. Should I go to the same facility? What's mostly stopping me is I was in rehab the same time last year and missed a family wedding. I would literally be missing another wedding along with Father's Day and my dad's birthday if I go next week. My mom seems to elude that I can't keep  missing family events  but even my doctor said what's the point of going on if I'm 30% there? I am terrified of helping myself and then coming out with NO ONE left. Truly scared. ..I saw a psychiatrist (for the first time) today; she said I have a lot of underlying mental  things going on  but can't help them until I help myself for alcoholism. .My grandfather uncle and other relatives have died from this disease. Runs rampant in my family. I work for my father so I've been able to get away with a lot. I feel like such a loser. ..I have damn near depleted my savings account due to my alcoholism. I don't even go out. I'm one of those shut-ins. I used to have everything going for me. Graduated college early bought a nice home at age 23 had thousands saved up I own my car have pets married but I feel everything is a facade. Nothing makes me happy. I find myself crying in parking lots almost hoping someone will pull me over or talk to me. Can't even get out of bed unless I absolutely need to eat.  
----------immediate responses--------

When come to the point where you're willing to commit to yourself that no matter what you will talk with a member before you drink again that's a great time to give AA another shot. Prior to that point why waste your evenings?
Is there something blocking you from trying to stay sober one day at a time? 
Staying sober takes a lot of work. It is not for the faint of heart but it can be done no matter how far down you think you are. When you think you are the worst there is..there is always someone else that has gone further down that has gotten and STAYED sober. If AA doesn't do it for you try CBT and DBT. The Sinclair method also has had a TON of success. There are lots of articles on the method out there. The thing that AA has that is paramount is the connection with likeminded people...those that share the struggle. It is crucial to identify with others that have stayed sober through incredible adversity. 
Sounds like depression to me. Can you try stopping drinking one day at a time. Stack up a few days and work with the doctor to get you feeling a little more normal?
In rehab you hear about 'yets' as in 'I haven't been arrested yet' or 'my husband hasn't left me yet.'..I talk about my 'nevers.'  As in  I'll never win an Oscar like heath Ledger who died of this disease.  I'll never be a great writer like Edgar Poe who died.... I'll never be a great singer like Whitney or Micheal or Amy.....A line I've heard is that the disease wants you to suffer but it will settle for killing you.
Rehab is a way to ensure you get the first 30 days clean. Getting over that hump was vital for me since I kept doing what you are doing now: getting on and off the horse. I also hit rock bottom but it doesn't sound like you've come to that point YET. Go to rehab if you want to learn about why you drink and to take an honest look at yourself. Therapy and AA alone werent enough for me before rehab but now that I'm out I am able to actually utilize those tools instead of just going through the motions. 
Yeah...okay so...this is really hard but like I said in the other post there are people who have gone through this kind of thing. I am so fortunate to have family that supported my decisions to stay clean and sober but I have a friend in the program that has been sober for three years and STILL her brothers tell her it is a waste of time. It took her mom two years to let up on her...she would offer her drinks and guilt trip her every day. She has stayed sober. If you want to stay sober you will need to reach out and find some perspective from those who have been through this. You can do it if you want to WORK HARD to stay sober. Don't drink no matter what. ..When you got sober the last time it changed the structure of the family. That takes a while to recalibrate. Just hang in there and find some support from people who want you to have the best life that you can. 
If you need a medically supervised detox that's one thing. But I believe rehab is just a Really expensive Big Book. That's where the solution is (was for me)
I've decided to go inpatient especially after receiving  the same recommendation from two different counselors. Will be going on Tuesday. 
