-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8ilnuh/would_microdosing_lsd_lead_to_emotional_relapse/

I'm 6 months sober and am wondering what would happen if I tried microdosing lsd in about 6 months. Would I just get increased creativity or would it lead to negative things? Anyone with experience or knowledge would be appreciated. 
----------immediate responses--------

We are not neuro-typical people by and large so while the average person could do this I don't recommend it for myself or other sober people. 
AA wisdom is to only take drugs under a doctor's orders especially in early sobriety...When I was about two months clean I remembered a character in a book I'd read.  He was an ex-bad boy who now only had one drink a day an evening cocktail with his boss...I decided that I was going to emulate him.  One drink a day couldn't hurt anyone...Then I thought that one drink wasn't all that much.  Two beers would be ablout right...Then I saw a 22 oz. bottle laying in the gutter.  Yes two 22 oz beers would be enough...Then I realized I'd gone from one beer to a quart in less than a minute.  That was my First Step when I realized I couldn't even fantazie about drinking safely.
I wouldn't roll the dice on my sobriety like that. I know it seems tempting. At 6 months sober we are all still a bit out of whack physically we feel great but mentally and emotionally we are still a bit unsettled..I would recommend wait another 6 months to a year and see how you feel. 
First get to the year and then ask your question if it's still on your mind. This one may solve itself.
Bill Wilson advocated LSD use. Thought it was great for spiritual awakenings. 
I have no experience with this but I must admit I'm curious. Ayahuasca or mescaline administered in a structured spiritual environment have caught my interest as well. That said microdosing I believe implies continued use &amp; I'm less comfortable with that for obvious reasons. Others here have said give it some time before you make a decision &amp; I'd wholeheartedly agree with that. 6mo in your body is still adjusting. You'll never know what your baseline is if you mess with it before you've normalized. 
I think you'd have to examine your motives. I've got two years and I've at times wanted to do psychedelics again (and I say to aid in my spirituality not in any sort of escapism) ... But for me personally  I have lingering doubts or hesitation so I have opted not to do it. I believe said uncertainty could lead to a bad trip because so much of ones experience on them depends on set and setting.. and I would bring that sentiment with me. That's my two cents might not be relavent because I'm not familiar with microdosing
Most likely 
I think you just answered your own question. Its different for everyone
Thanks for the honest responses. If I ever do it I'll let you guys know but it won't be for I while if ever.
I microdose ibogaine once in awhile.  ..If your actually microdosing... Like its measured out properly and stick to a strict schedule.  Then i say give it a shot.  ..It definitley wont get you high and if you are involved with a program it could work out amazingly. ..If someone else doesnt have REAL experience with microdosing then ignore them. 
I think if you have to ask you're probably not ready yet.
I'm not speaking ill of any AA who has tried it or something similar especially those who have confided their experiences in this thread. It is all invaluable experience. Thank you for sharing. But... If you feel your spirituality/sobriety is somehow lacking and you are considering taking a substance that is illegal under federal constitution to somehow aid it you have just allowed the self to gobble up one of the most common lies we trick ourselves into believing. ..First it should be obvious that if you feel your sobriety is lacking somehow you shouldn't remotely be thinking about these types of things that are shrouded in so much controversy. They remain far outside of our simple\-enough program and entirely outside the purview of Alcoholics Anonymous besides the serious concern this invokes in nearly all of its members. It should be clear that you are not ready for whatever you are planning. Just stop planning and drop it. Why think about or make this type of decision about your sobriety six months ahead like this. Its a red flag to me. There is a perceived fear of something so far off about your own intentions and a decision you want to make now that you feel the need to get online advice. ..Please don't take offense but I laugh at what any person in the halls would say to you 1\-on\-1 if posed with this exact question haha. I think you do too. I suspect this is why you chose to post the question here on the interweb instead. Its clear to me what you should so. ..I'm sorry if what I am going to say is generic and lacks the pop culture promises of microdosing. Dive back into the fundamentals of the program. Grab someone experienced to take you through the process described in the Big Book if you have not already. This is vital. Do this until you feel comfortable enough with the program and fit enough in your spirituality that you no longer have an opinion on this either way anymore. Let this internal debate you are having now about this just slip away from importance and reveal it for the manifestation of self that it really is. ..You are just mistaking an imagined external benefit from something that is found internally. Its not real you know. Your concern that you are going to be in such short supply of creativity that you will need to venture into the fringe to find enough for whatever you want to do. There isn't an AA alive who lacks creativity. We AAs are incredibly lucky that we already tapped into a limitless source of creativity when were drinking. We just allowed the self to run wild with it and form massive defense mechanisms for the damaged ego to hide directly in front of our face. ..Think back at anytime you needed to lie on the spot. Flawlessly in a snap we could tap into this source of limitless creativity to weave an endless web of lies to seemingly get out any situation we could possibly get into. Even if it was just in the short term. ..In time through working the program specifically the one outlined in the Big Book and vigorously working with others you will discover this source can be flipped from self and harnessed by us for boundless inspiration. Instead of dishonesty wrap your mind around honesty. If you look back to those same situations where we need to spin lies to get out of a bind the same situations would have had better outcomes had we simply been courageously honest instead of deceptive. ..Simple creativity will give way to something invaluable inspiration. A kid can be creative and draw their dog purple but Michelangelo was divinely inspired. Chemical creativity will never satiate what you desire. There are handfuls of other drugs that we used to believe made us creative. Replace the term"microdose" with any of them and its so cliche that it is nearly identical to what Bill W. himself on page 2 .."We had long talks when I would still her forebodings by telling her that men of genius conceived their best projects when drunk\(MICRODOSING LSD\); that the most majestic constructions of philosophic thought were so derived."  .. I guarantee you can learn to tap into such a source of inspiration if you follow the simple instructions of the Twelve Steps and work it. Call me a thumper but the program of Alcoholics Anonymous is simply laid out in the Big Book.
Do you have a sponsor?  If I decided to dose/microdose my sponsor would say that I would need to go back to my home group  and pick up a white chip and to call him when I did so. Bottom line tripping on acid is not sobriety period. 
