-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8j21u5/two_months_ago_i_had_one_month_now_i_slip_every/

Around mid February I went to my first meeting and stayed sober just around thirty days... I relapsed during sxsw I was working sound at an event and ran into a friend and mentor. Before I knew it I was in a group of people about to do shots it was easier to take the drink then to stop and to explain to an entire group of people why I could not. There were a lot of things I could have done instead but I took the shoot and told myself it wouldn't happen again. ..Since the end of March I've been on a weekly relapse cycle. I'm doing better then I did before a meeting but I want and need to get back to thirty days and keep pushing on. The worst part is since then I've also entered into a pretty nasty fast food habit and gained considerable weight in such a short time. I can't seem to catch myself long enough to stop slipping. ..Anyway I have more to say but have to get back to work. I plan on going to a meeting tomorrow after my shift. If anyone has advice on choosing a good sponsor that would be lovely ..
----------immediate responses--------

Hey I'm not nor have I ever been an alcoholic. But I wish you good luck friend. Just try your hardest and don't kick yourself too hard when you fall. We all have our demons and we make mistakes. Just do your best...Good luck.
I am in a similar situation man Going to try my first ever meeting this evening. Stay strong!.
Addicts tend to seek out jobs/careers where drinking is allowed/encouraged.  There is a 'Writing Sober' group in my area and a few 'Artists/Musicians' in recovery...I personally know two sober tech guys and a dozen actors...I'd suggest you reach out to your peers honestly and seek out other techs/musicians to help...Good luck.
"The person I was drank; the person I was will drink again."..The key to success in recovery is honesty open-mindedness and willingness. This means taking direction from others and trying new ideas because we don't want to drink anymore.
If it is easier for you to drink than explain why you do not it is going to be a difficult / short recovery. You do not have to explain yourself. 
You may know some of the sober people from your last time in. Picking an active member with time who's committed to passing this thing along to new people shouldn't be too hard. He'll show up regular at meetings have some sponsees that are staying sober and doing well and an enviable life going. 
Look for someone trustworthy and who you respect 
Thanks for the advice y'all! Be going to a meeting later tonight 
