-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8j71g2/i_need_advice/

First time post in this forum...long story short I've struggled for a few years with emotions and alcohol.  I lost my whole family one by one from 25-29.  So my support is pretty much nil.  I decided exactly a year ago today to do in patient rehab for alcohol and coke.  Well a year out I am much better but have indulged a few times.  I no longer feel that guilt the day after I reason with myself because of progress...if that makes sense.  Can I ask how you found ur home groups?  I'm a single mother no family no support who doesn't want to go back to the dark side.  I don't agree w all of the aa god stuff but I have seen it's results and there isn't much smart recovery in my area.  From what I have read that's  iffy .  Can anyone relate?  I'm in Bergen county nj.  Can anyone recommend anything?  As always thanks to the reddit community it always has a great heart!  
----------immediate responses--------

You are going to get the standard  it's not religious it is spiritual  speech. ..There are groups that are less preachy than others. ..paging u/mnhoops. please take it. ...
Go to the app store and down load 'Meeting Guide' [blue back ground with a white chair] looks like there are a lot of meetings in your area...I'm in NYC and some of the Higher Powers I've heard include Dorothy Parker a mermaid in a Central Park Lake Loki from the Avengers movies the Great Out Doors and Mel Brooks...Good luck.
I don't the any of us like the whole god thing when we need to go to AA I certainly didn't. It's not about religion it's about spirituality. Religion say this is God and how you must believe spirituality just asks that you stay open to the idea that maybe there is a "God" (group of drunks) and you're not it..... Alcoholism and addiction centers in the mind the fact you are OK with drinking and using again proves that. I lost all my family friends and every before I went to AA. Today I'm 9 yrs sober and not only do i have my family back I have one of my own. A wife daughter and dog.... I owe it all to AA not only did it keep me from picking up a drink it taught me how to be a better son friend and husband to own my part in life and make positive changes.... I honestly can't sag enough about AA. Most people go to a meeting or two here the word God or find something else they don't agree with and write off the whole thing..... That's the alcoholic mind working at its hardest..... Take what you want and leave the rest but if you go and I mean go every day and do the whole deal I guarantee your life will get better..... I remember the loneliness and despair before I found AA. I remember fucking up like 20 times relapsing from AA and multiple treatment centers but I kept coming back and I kept trying harder.... All my old drinking/drugging buddies are dead and I live a awesome life....... 100% because of AA... 
Try Hazelden Betty Ford outpatient program it's a mix of AA and smart plus I think they have a women's group. There is a lot of good groups in the city with a lot of old history. Like Perry street New But West mustard seed... Small groups big group I treat it like window shopping. But my heart is at Hazelden because the groups and programs are top notch for folks like us. Stay https://www.hazeldenbettyford.org/locations/chelsea
Hey I found my first aa group by calling the national British helpline and they told me about my closest meeting. I knew my life was going downhill I knew that it related to alcohol and drugs and decided to do something about it. My preconceptions were largely misplaced particularly around the word 'God' to some extent it still makes me feel a little uncomfortable but my experience is that the vast majority either have  felt or still feel the same way. I can always talk to people about it and listen to what a host of people have to say and as with most things in the room I find people exactly like me. That's the value of meetings; to listen learn and get our lives back together. I wish you the best of luck. 
Unless you're willing to drive long distances AA meetings are realistically going to be your nearest f2f resource. There are 2 SMART recovery meetings in NJ and 2 Lifering meetings in NY State...You'll find the same % breakdown of religious/non-religious people in your local AA meetings you'd expect to find at your local shopping mall. If AA is secretly about converting members to religion my experience over much of the world is that they do a supremely terrible job at it. Expect members to be less churchy than your neighborhood block party would be.
I will share my experience strength and hope with you on one of my last drunks perhaps my last I'm not sure i ran away from my friends I didn't want to be near people i was drunk and angry at myself for not having the willpower to stay sober. I started walking down a highway trying to hitchhike like a drunken idiot no rides surprisingly. I walked as far as an overpass and on that early sunday morning I stood up there and somewhat seriously contemplated jumping i was drunk but the walk was sobering me a bit...I felt hopeless I KNEW at that point that i could not stay sober on my own but not hopeless enough to jump i guess. i kept walking down to the ground level and when i got there i spotted a big patch of tall weeds I went right to the middle and laid in them looking up at the sky probably feeling even more like a failure because it seemed the suicide escape door was not even going to work for me...I laid there and looked towards the sky and thought a prayer my first honest prayer in a long long time didn't even know who i was praying to and all i really said was "please help me" no clap of thunder no burning bushes. I picked myself up and made my way home. The answer to that prayer came a few months later in the form of a man who cared enough to try and help me and a friend who invited me to AA meetings...If you feel like that then you are in great shape for the AA program of recovery you will be desperate enough to take suggestions and although you will want to run away the fear of drinking and using will keep you coming back...AA does not demand that you believe ANYTHING you can sit right in the meetings and loudly declare that you do not believe in silly gods and nobody will throw you out. If you do that you certainly will get a lot of attention after the meeting some of it will be helpful some not so much...I would be one of the people who would come up to you after the meeting and try to convince you to give the spiritual answer a try because for people like me - there is NO other way. ..It does not give me a good feeling when i approach a new person and in the lightest least offensive way possible I try to tell them how I was right where they are I fought I looked for loopholes I found none and eventually i had to just stop fighting and take the suggestions and they argue with me or i offend them by mentioning GOD. ..When i think about it it's quite strange people come to meetings and they fight quietly or noisy but they are not really fighting me or even AA they can stop going to meetings ANY time they want poof! no more conflict!      not true really WHERE is the conflict then? in their minds!..Well i'm rambling now so i guess that's all i have to type i hope i said something helpful.
I don't attend aa meetings.  I work and I have a boyfriend (thank god he is sober) but in my weak moments I take solace from this site.  I do have a family but most of them are heavy drinkers and I don't feel support from them in my quest for sanity.  I also suffer from bipolar disorder.  It sounds like you are suffering.  Could you consider a therapist to talk about the issues of losing your family?  Also maybe try to find or further develop friendships with sober people who could become like family?  (personally I have no real friendships instead I rely on an online bipolar chat room but it is no replacement for real friends)  I would like to attend an in-person AA group but I have been discouraged.  As for God I pray before falling asleep.  I wish you luck and love.  If you date I recommend definitely finding someone healthy and sober who can support you in your journey.
AA World Services publishes a title  Came to Believe' about how people came to have a spiritual life and tap into that power that keeps us sober.  Maybe work a 4th with God on the list see if there's a resentment there.  Same with God's  people'.   The steps really helped me sort all that out.
