-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8jndh2/drank_last_night/

without going into a whole bunch of back story i am fairly new into the sober world and AA.  and last night after many many days of that fire slowly building inside me i went out and bought some beer and drank them last night.  that gave me no wonderful pleasure it ceased to enhance my evening in anyway and knowing the later impacts beforehand i did so anyway.  i am not sitting here regretting the choice i just am so blown away about why i get this burning obsession to turn to booze when i know full well there is no good to come of it.  i hear in the meetings that one needs to WORK the program but i guess i don't understand what that work really is?  reading more AA literature?  i will admit i am struggling with a higher-power.  anyway i just don't understand why there is this obsession for me to drink when nothing good comes of it and i don't even really enjoy it anymore.   thankfully i didn't get too out of control as what used to happen and i didn't fall into a pit of anger and resentment and argumentativeness last night i just drank my beer and went to bed.  but still i don't want to drink anymore truly.  i admit that i am powerless over alcohol and my life becomes unmanageable when i do drink.  i don't know.  anyway i will get back to my meetings and try to figure all of this out one way or another as i deeply want this obsession for booze to find it's place outta my mind once and for all.  .
----------immediate responses--------

Are seeking feedback posting here ?
&gt;i hear in the meetings that one needs to WORK the program but i guess i don't understand what that work really is?..That is referring to getting a sponsor and working the steps typically...&gt;i will admit i am struggling with a higher-power...I am an atheist so I found this part particularly hard.  For me my higher power are the people in the rooms with lots of sober time - they had what I wanted when I walked through the door - they also knew how to get it - so they as a group are a power greater than me alone.
First thank God you made it back without more damage...Second it's a one day at a time program because any time an alcoholic doesn't drink it's a miracle.  ..Last don't be afraid to let your peers know you slipped.  I had a relapse in early sobriety and wanted to cover it up.  I think that by admitting to it early I was better able to do the rest of the program...Good luck.
*i will admit i am struggling with a higher-power*..You will find that if you are strong in Step One that this is not a huge barrier. Step Two is about (in my interpretation) "coming to believe" that you are not the highest power. AA is full of various spiritual beliefs and people who are religious and people who are not religious but we only have one program. People work the program differently which is why our sponsor is important: find a sponsor who has something you want because you will build your program with that person. Don't make a chore of determining what the truths of the cosmos might be: the book Alcoholics Anonymous (our textbook) tells us that we "resigned from the debating society" which just means that we stopped fretting. I have a pamphlet about atheism in AA but maybe share that in a meeting and seek out a sponsor who had that problem. What you believe in isn't a concern to the people in the rooms and it's nobody else's business as long as you believe in something greater than you. Borrow somebody else's Higher Power at first until your own presents itself to you.
"We don't shoot our wounded." Good for you for resolving to go back. Lots of people who slip relapse go back out whatever you want to call it they're too proud or ashamed to get back to the rooms. If you want to get rid of that obsession and the compulsive drinking-even-after-it's-stopped-being-fun a group of AA is a place to find people who can relate...For me the most helpful thing in my early days was to listen up to what everyone had to say and then stay after the meeting and talk more with people who said something that I liked. I didn't get much relief for months but they told me to keep coming back and they were right. A lot of this program takes time T-I-M-E.
Welcome home. Stay... it's easier. 
WORKING the program is by getting a sponsor and meeting him/her regularly to go through the steps. It's that simple. Are you up for that? What questions come to mind about this? We are here to guide you!
I notice you tacked on 'when I do drink' to your admission of powerlessness over alcohol. You'd earlier made the decision not to drink but wound up drinking anyway. How this played out indicates a lack of power over alcohol prior to drinking. ..Do the stuff to get the results you want.
sorry just want to add.  (this is mostly a reply to a comment below but i just had something to add below it):.."i went to a meeting last night and volunteered to be the first to share and unloaded all my emotions thoughts fears etc. i spoke from my heart and meant ever word. i was hoping with this that i would garner some after talk some support. i don't know maybe i expect to much. one girl gave me a heart felt "keep coming back" and another fella genuinely shook my hand and said the same. other than that not much else. for me i felt this was my "cry" (i mean that as lightly though in a way as possible) for help. i was saying i was bewildered not doing things properly need to focus on it more etc... and afterward... barely a peep. i don't know i was hoping for more of a lending of hand. i have a hard time even with what i said last night but with "asking" point-blank - help me?"..so anyway during my talk last night i mentioned that this desire to drink was like a little bug that just got worse and worse (kinda like a cold or flu)... and that stuck with others when they spoke and this idea of "the bug" kept coming up.  so we ran out of time and a few others just said their names and passed but it got to one of the last older fellas and he said "hi i'm so-and-so and i'm an alcoholic.  but i just want to add one thing... this "bug" that everyone refers to... well that is denial.  and if you have denial then you ain't gonna make it in this program".   and here i am sitting there thinking wow... thanks!  that's just what i need to hear right now.  i have denial and i ain't gonna make it in this program.  
