-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8jo9j1/question_people_whove_started_a_family_in/

I have small kids. Had the first one when I was a little over a year sober. I am forever grateful for my family my loving wife because I've seen so many families fall apart in early sobriety or at the end of the drinking days. It is really only through grace that mine is together...Since having kids I've had a lot of trouble striking a balance between attending meetings and being an engaged father. Being a father is no part time job and it was my full time job for a while \(stay at home dad\). These days I'm lucky if I get to 3 meetings a week. The average is closer to 1.5 or 2. It has been like this since I was 56 days sober when I moved and there were only 2 available. I've been sober since June 6 2013 have worked the steps. Had a few sponsors \(new one every time I've moved\) I've been able to take someone through the steps \(had multiple people start and not finish\) and I feel like my life is quite good. I'm grateful every day for the life this program has given me. But I just can't get to meetings as often as I'd like to. All the one's people tell me I should go to are during my kid's bedtimes. Now I live somewhere that there are others that I can go to. They are late and I go on days that I need to get in some extra contact with AAs which means that someone might recognize me but I don't know people there. ..I have a home group I don't miss and a sponsor. My sponsor hasn't had kids so I was hoping to get some ESH \(experience strength and hope\) from those who've started/kept a family in sobriety...So here's my question: To those who have had families in sobriety what happened to your meeting schedules when your kids were young \(ages 1 and 3\)? What did you do? Did you find you had less time to give to AA? How do you balance the needs of the gifts of the program with continuing work in the program? What did you struggle with? What was it like? What happened? What is it like now?
----------immediate responses--------

My first time around I got custody of my son when I was less than five yrs. I thought I had it I became super single dad and shifted my focus to my son. My intentions were pure although misguided. My ego got the best of me. I drank. That boy is now a father and by God's grace I was given another 24 hour coin many years ago. How would I handle what your in right now ? Probably no differently than you. It's when I hear someone say they just don't have time meetings and service anymore that I cringe. There is no perfect program. It has to ebb and flow with your schedule. We need to pay bills and change diapers   Just don't let the things that aa brought into your life take you away from aa. I'll think good thoughts for you. 
I cut back to two meetings a week.  
I'm learning that being of service includes being of service to my husband and son. ..I go to noon meetings and I've switched out church for a Sunday meeting. .I wish I could spend all my time in meetings rolling around in recovery like I did in boozing and using. But for me that's part of my recovery. I don't have to have all of it every single second of every single day. Sometimes I've gotta have a little bit and be satisfied. That includes in the fellowship. 
You're doing better than me it's super hard to get to meetings with kids. The program gives us the tools to go forth onto life and all of its challenges. Personally I don't think we are suppoto hide in the safety of the rooms. AAs managed to stay sober when they had to go off to war and didn't have meetings. You are AA. AA goes with you where ever you go. What's better the guy sitting on church listening to sports on the radio or the guy in his garage praying to god? My kid is 3 I am primary caregiver and I wish I could do more meetings but I can't. That's why I come here read big book call people in AA etc etc..... If you're still getting to a couple meetings a week I wouldn't worry about it so long as your program is strong. Once the kids are a bit older there will be more time for meetings 
