-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8k8b6p/im_about_to_be_a_grandma/

And my son is actively using I'm not sure what.  He's been calling texting and posting on fb all kinds of nasty things about me. His gf says he beats her but then she goes back to him and won't talk to me. I've been told I won't be allowed to see the baby. This is the closest I've been to drinking in 9 months. I don't want to drink. I just don't want to feel this way. For mother's day I got a 'fuck you bitch '. I'm heartbroken.  This is a child that was so adored and loved. He was outgoing extremely intelligent funny and good looking.  I would die for him. He has threatened to murder his own brother he's threatened things I can't repeat  he called my 70 year old mom and threatened to have her thrown in jail he threatened to tell my landlord stories to  try to get me kicked out.   If allowing him to abuse me is the requirement to see my granddaughter I won't/ can't do it. .. My sponsor's response is always to just cut him off.  But my sponsor doesn't have a relationship with her son and I'm watching her drop her sponsees as soon they get their children back from state custody.  (Most of the people in my home group are young mothers trying to get their kids back and none of them are alcoholics. They're addicts but NA in this town is a joke it's a good place to find drugs) It's like she likes it when other people don't  have relationships with their kids either. There's literally only two other women who sponsor in this small town and one of them is family. I've tried to reach out to ladies in neighboring towns and I don't get any responses.  I'm floundering dangerously. This sorry little town only has two meetings a day at noon and 6pm plus the two meetings a week at my home group.  I'm usually only able to make it to my home group. I've considered joining a different home group and chairing some 8pm meetings but aren't I supposed to be in the same home group  as my sponsor? And anyway the 8pm meeting is the group that my sponsor left (because the men in that group sent a representative to the business meeting to cuss her out and yell at her because she's a bossy gossip which is true but they couldn't have been more inappropriate in the way they went about it) to start her own group they've diminished so much that they've cancelled nearly all their meetings. It's such a big drama all the way around.  I realize this should maybe be posted in alanon but because I'm an alcoholic and my first threat is relapse I felt that it belonged here. .
----------immediate responses--------

