-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8l48zj/today_is_day_two_of_my_journey_on_becoming_sober/

I started drinking about a year and a half ago when I moved from Maui to the mainland to pursue a divorce from my husband of 12 years. I came back to the mainland ecstatic and ready to live shortly after moving to the mainland I broke my wrist and had to have surgery with a plate and screws this was especially devastating since I'm a massage therapist. It started slowly where I use the double each evening to wind down and decompress. I was a full-time student a mother and eventually went back to work as a full-time massage therapist and had a lot on my plate I avoided processing my divorce  but slowly the insecurities that I began to feel for my divorce start up past pains from childhood trauma which I thought I had worked through. Eventually it turned into three beers and evening most nights of the week after my kiddo went to bed. I maintained my job and my social life I got all A's in school but I didn't slow down and I used avoidance as a way to deal with my problems I buried my head in books and school work and focus on my clients at work. I went to school for six straight terms and managed to get straight A's but my drinking problem became more of an issue were three beers a night turned into starting and not knowing how to stop until eventually I found myself struggling to get through the next day because I felt hung over. Over the course of a year and a half I gained over 50 pounds and began to feel sick all the time with what I thought was allergies. After doing a lot of research I realized that I'm destroying my gut health with alcohol and it creates a porous gut environment for you to develop food allergies to things like wheat and dairy causing your immune system to attack foods you normally be able to process. My alcohol consumption also started affecting my billet he to deal with allergens in the air. In order to cope I've had to take allergy medicine every single day and try to replenish my system with as many multivitamins and probiotics as possible yet still feeling sick fatigued and depressed all the time.  I used to view the idea of giving up alcohol is giving up joy in my life that I was giving something away and that I may not be able to enjoy the same social events or to be able to sleep in the evening but now I've come to realize that The only way to get my joy and motivation back for life is to give up alcohol. Something that used to bring a little extra joy to my life has now sucked every bit of joy from it. I've gone to counselors and therapists and reached out for help to have them turned me away and tell me I am not an alcoholic but that I am dealing with PTSD and maybe that's the case maybe that's why am struggling with using alcohol as a sedative for PTSD but either way I felt like the practitioners are not giving me the help that I need and are not taking me seriously when I say that I am struggling to not drink at the end of the night. I've actually had physical sensations in the evening when trying not to drink feelings feel very similar to when you give up sugar or quit nicotine. I don't shake or feel like I need a drink to get through the day but I can't sleep at night without it and I found myself dealing with terrible dreams when I'm sober at night. Alcohol made it possible for me to sleep through the night but without it I find myself waking up every two hours. I think there's many different levels of alcoholism many that maybe doctors don't recognize or diagnose. I do not drink during the day I don't have any desire to do so and I definitely don't need a drink in the morning and in fact have never drink in the morning so sometimes I wonder if I even belong in this community. ..My parents were addicts growing up. Instead of alcohol that used heroin. I watch them go through so much pain and with draws and grief and shame they were arrested several times over the years and eventually I went into foster care and bounced around from home to home for years this is very Trumatic experience for me along with other experiences that I care not to mention here. I feel ashamed because my life goal has always to never be like them even though I love them dearly. Eventually their addiction took both of their lives when I was 12 years old my father was hit by train while intoxicated in a few years later my mother died from what I suspected to be suicide. I don't with a lot of emotional trauma because of that and I worked for a lot of it became a very successful adult. So upon going through divorce I found myself unable to cope with my emotions and walked into a very dangerous pattern which I knew or at least I thought I knew how to avoid I know all the right things to do in order to take care of your mental and physical health but slowly almost in perceivably I let it all slip away for me until I was out of control. I'd make up silly excuses after being clean for a few days that I will just have two beers and no more every attempt to do that has failed or make another excuse that I'm only using a few beers to go to sleep at night and that will be the end of it but then I'll find myself doing it again the next evening. ..I think the emotional trauma of losing somebody that I have loved dearly for 12 years who is been my best friend start up so many feelings of insecurity because I lived with him longer than I lived with anybody else in my life and he's been a security to me it's stirred up so many feelings of abandonment and fear of being alone that I didn't know how to process the feelings even though I'm the one that chose to end the relationship. I'm not sure if any of you have dealt with this type of problem before if I even belong in this community but I would love to get some ideas on how any of you got through your cravings because my cravings come usually around six or 7 o'clock at night even though I've told myself all day then I'm going to be strong and I feel strong and I don't have any desire to drink at all until it starts to get dark
----------immediate responses--------

Have you found an AA/NA meeting to go to?
Everyone has to go to their first meeting right?   I had bad cravings for nine months and AA got me through.  I now understand a power greater than myself was needed and I found that in AA.  Sound crazy?  Maybe but I was desperate and tried everything. I'm one of the lucky ones...Go to a meeting. 
Glad you're here.  Your story really resonated with me. I stopped drinking with the help of an outpatient program that required meetings every day. I found lifering which was awesome. It's secular self-help. .
i completely understand the cravings around 6 or 7 o'clock.  Its probably because that's the time you were used to start drinking.  Mine come around the time i get home around 5 o'clock.  What I've done is find something to distract myself around that time.  I'll also drink water around that time just because it gives me the feel of a drink in my right hand.  ..I don't know if your religious or what but i pray and pray consistently.  That's where I'm getting my strength !!  ..I pray for you and that God gives you the strength you need to get through this time.  
