-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8l8u6v/5_years_sober_and_want_to_die/

I've been sober 5 years and I'm active in AA. When I was drinking my goal was to drink myself to death by 40.  I didn't have the courage to kill myself so drinking myself to death was the best option.  I wanted my wife to have a better husband and my kids to have a better father.  I'm now about 40 days away from my 40th Birthday and I am screwed up.  I just keep thinking I'm not good enough and a loser.  I think even though I'm sober I should still die by 40.  I'm not rich enough good looking enough and still struggle with low self esteem.  I can't tell anyone how I feel.  I'm just lost and wish I would have done so many things different.  
----------immediate responses--------

It's okay you're sober and living your life. There are some deep feelings here though. How is your daily program?
I'm listening to this speaker tape right now and it's pretty great. He's talking about the exact feelings that you are.       [https://www.recoveryaudio.org/aa\-speaker\-tapes/palm\-springsca\-drop\-the\-rock\-1972](https://www.recoveryaudio.org/aa-speaker-tapes/palm-springsca-drop-the-rock-1972)..Incidentally we got to talking about ages at our pizza fellowship last Friday night and one of the most respected dudes in the group got to talking about how his 40s have been his favorite decade of his life so far. He has long\-term sobriety works professionally in recovery sponsors a bunch of dudes and everybody comes to him for advice. I'm not far behind you at all and only at 3 years and 2 months so I will be hitting my 40s with less than 6 years myself God willing.          ..Most of the feelings you describe are things I tackle in my morning prayer and meditation before I start my day the days I don't do that I start feeling sorry for myself and low on myself but most of the time I actually feel that I have value and a sense of direction and importance which is the first real time in my life I have. You're inspiring me.
Sounds like straight up self-centeredness. Turn your attention to another alcoholic in need of help and you'll find that fulfillment you are seeking. Are you sponsoring anyone?
The thing I credit most with helping me get over low self esteem is the idea of service and "getting outside myself". Have you tried working with another person from the rooms? Sorry to hear you are struggling. 
Holy shit!!! Your story is EXACTLY mine. Felt everything you are going through man only I wasn't sober at the time. After my downfall and getting into AA I started seeing a therapist... Best suggestion my homegroup gave me. Took 2 years but I passed my 40th birthday alive and moving forward with life. It can be done... I now take meetings into institutions to remind myself of where I was at and to give back...I will never tell you what to do only share what worked for me. 
I sponsor 2 people and feel like a hypocrite at times because I struggle myself.  I am my own worst enemy for sure.
It sounds like classic depression to me... have you talked to your doctor?  I was in a similar  if not as severe state not long ago.  I am now on an antidepressant and its made a WORLD of difference.  
I feel how you feel too... 
Do you have the means to see a therapist or doctor for your depression? 
Sometimes we need outside professional help. AA alleviated my spiritual sickness I needed psychological help for my other sickness...
Thank you so much for sharing this. It's not uncommon and you're not alone. You are however dealing with those thoughts &amp; feelings in the same way that you used to deal with alcohol which for us eventually turns extremely toxic. Therefore it's no surprise you are where you are today...It's SHOCKING to me that only one person here has asked you about where you are in your step work. ..I humbly suggest you kick off your renewed step work with Mark H &amp; Dave F. Here's a free link: https://www.recoveryaudio.org/speaker/emotional-sobriety-workshop-dave-f-and-mark-h..Find a sponsor who has a sponsor &amp; brings a Big Book to the meetings. Hopefully he has a sparkle in his eye. Ask him to guide you back through the steps. ..You have SO MANY of the parts in place. You're very close to that great life you see others having. Claim it with God's help for yourself!..
Please reach out to someone on your phone list - or even just reach out via a contact. It is very important that you do.
Have you seen a doctor about clinical depression? 
Please talk to a health care professional.
"I can't tell anyone how I feel"..You don't have a sponsor? You don't go to meetings where other people are? If either of those are the case and i'll skip the whole lecture on suggesting now's the time to work the steps or if you simply don't want to talk to someone "you know" call intergroup man talk to another alcoholic for a little while ask what their problems are. .Keep trudging..It's also not weak to start looking for outside help. .P.S. If you decide to disclose to someone else especially in a public format like a meeting I would suggest being careful how you word your feelings i.e. not say "i'm going to kill myself".
