-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8li1fh/almost_18_months_and_im_not_sure_im_an_alcoholic/

I quit drinking after I got a DUI on the way home from a date in January of 2017. I'd had 3 beers blew a .04 and spent the night in jail. On my lawyer's advice I went to treatment for 90 days and when I got out I learned that the DA's office had decided not to prosecute me. 17 months later I'm still sober and mostly happy. I've learned a ton about myself my friends/family and my higher power. Overall I'm pretty grateful for the time I've spent in the program. The problem is I'm still not sure if I ever actually belonged in the program despite the fact that I've met some great people and can actually relate to a few of them. I've been pretty unmanageable my whole life \(even before I started drinking\) and there was a time when it was the only tool I had to deal with the shit that was happening in my life but I've never actually felt powerless over alcohol. I honestly can't tell if I'm an alcoholic or if I just enjoy meetings...I know that nobody can tell me if I'm an alcoholic or not and I'm not looking for someone to take my inventory for me or anything. I just need some perspective because I really don't know who I can talk to about this. My friends \(and even ex\-girlfriends\) outside the program say they never noticed a problem to begin with. My family is worried I'll get into trouble again. People in the rooms tell me that "nobody is here by accident." My therapist says I'm just trying to justify a relapse. It just feels like everyone is either too close or too far from the situation to talk straight with me so I figured strangers might be the best bet. On one hand I feel like I've gained so much from my AA experience but on the other I don't know if I belong here or not.
----------immediate responses--------

This is a first step issue you need to get with your sponsor and start there.
I think it's wiser not to ask  am I an alcoholic?  but rather evaluate your life without alcohol. If you like living sober and if AA (in whatever form) helps you achieve that stick with it...
The   normal   drinker doesn't have any of these thoughts conversations concerns. That phenomenon of craving. They don't. With that being said  it's always been my sobriety and my decision to drop to my knees in the morning and ask for help. Cunning baffling powerful... nasty stuff  !!! .  I'll think good thoughts for you. 
If you're asking for a personal opinion here's mine...You meet a guy at the gym.  He's in great shape.  He tells you he's been working out for a little over a year ever since his doctor told him that he need to tome up...He tells you that he likes the gym has made some great friends and his family is happy he's doing this...Then he tells you he's thinking of going back to sitting home and eating junk food every day.
The book says that if you aren't sure you're an alcoholic to go out and try some controlled drinking. 
I get what you mean the issue is can any mental issues you have and alcohol be mutually exclusive? ..I've been a mental mess since Middle School and I never really used at all until my early 20's(I can count on one hand the amount of times I drank or smoked before I hit 21 and it was never in excess). When I did hit 21 I didn't even have more than two drinks and it took a while for me to start drinking period but I still didn't have a great mental state. There were countless times I would be a fucking idiot that had nothing to do with drinking. ..But then the drinking started and my mental health is a lot better now but the drinking issue remains. Some people will say AA is a cure all but I feel it's main purpose is sobriety that isn't necessarily all that some people need though. I'm trying to get help in other ways cause I don't think the steps will be enough to cure whatever is causing me to use alcohol as a coping mechanism but it's gonna help me not use it to cope. ..You're really gonna have to be the judge on whether or not you are an alcoholic or not you didn't write much for me to have any judgment one way or the other. I don't really get why your family would be concerned if your dui came from a .04 reading (that's below the legal limit where I'm from) are you leaving something out? Was there more you've done that would cause them worry or are they just really overprotective? 
It's a progressive disease. In my opinion you were very fortunate to have the experience that you went through without having to suffer years of agony. You dodged a bullet kiddo
Two simple questions. Can you quit entirely when you want to quit? Do you have little control over the amount you take after you once start drinking? ..If you ask yourself those two questions you can find out very rapidly whether you're alcoholic or not. If you can't do those things then you are probably alcoholic...If you're not sure you could always go out and try some controlled drinking.
I can absolutely relate. It's been nearly five years for me and I still sometimes question if I was "really" alcoholic just young and dumb. But like other commenters have suggested the program and being sober have made my life better! They say "it's not a drinking disease it's a thinking disease" and for me that's proven true. I choose to stay sober work steps go to meetings pray talk to my sponsor and help another alcoholic because it makes life better and makes me happier. 
You belong in AA if you have a desire not to drink alcohol. 
It does sound like you want to drink again. I don't think the reasons you give yourself for doing that matter much. Making it all about your search for 'Finding Truth' is as good as any and probably better than some. ..I do feel sorry for your folks a bit.
Good post. My two cents is non-alcoholics don't question whether or not they may be alcoholic...Also alcoholism is a disease that convinces you that you don't have it. Plus you have to diagnose yourself. Pretty crazy! ..The book says if you aren't sure go try some controlled drinking and find out and we'll be there if you make it back
Hi! From what I've read  and please forgive me if I'm off base it sounds like you're struggling with the "powerlessness" aspect and to that I can offer my own experience...It was very obvious to me that for years my life was unmanageable.  I had extremely poor relationships I was always unhappy except when I distracted I was drinking or doing some kind of drug every day for years  etc I could go on.  I was in a very deep rut...But I can't recall ever once having the instance of an 'allergic' reaction  "I said I was gonna have just one drink and I blacked out  I had no control"  it turns out that for me that exact pattern doesn't matter one iota with regards to my powerlessness.  My powerlessness manifested itself in ways I had no idea of  and I could only move forward in that respect by working with a sponsor.  ..My advice is what my sponsor would say to me - talk about your concerns in a meeting.  Voice them out loud.  And there's a very good chance others have struggled with your exact concerns.   You're not going to be looked down upon for saying "I don't know if this is for me" in fact I bet you would be swarmed with compassion...Anyways thanks for the post and good luck
If when you honestly want to you find you can not quit entirely or if when drink you have little control over the about you take you are probably an alcoholic 
