-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8lkycr/trying_to_get_over_meeting_anxiety/

Over the summer I found a great young people's group that met twice a week. It helped me to achieve a month sober longer than I've had in years...Then I moved. Since moving I haven't gone to a single meeting and I've been struggling on my own. I've had several small relapses and I've decided I need to start going back...But there's the problem. There's no big AA community here like I used to have. Meetings seem somewhat scarce and from what I've heard around town a lot of the meetings posted online are inactive or don't meet...I found a meeting I'm trying to convince myself to go to but I'm nervous about going. It's a ways away from me so I don't want to drive all the way there only to find that they aren't meeting or worse that I don't fit with the group and I'm back to square one...I know it's dumb but I very much feel like the new kid at school. I've overcome these nerves before but I'm having a harder time this time around for some reason.
----------immediate responses--------

I would suggest that you need to get over the idea of "fitting with the group" - everyone there is there for a common purpose - overcoming alcoholism..."We are people who normally would not mix. But there exists among us a fellowship a friendliness and an understanding which is indescribably wonderful."
What the book would say I believe is that this is a fear. How do we handle fears? Well they can be handled in steps 4 &amp; 5. Something that's worked for me has been a line from the book that suggests when I have a fear I ask God to remove that fear and direct my attention to what he'd have me be. Sometimes quickly sometimes slowly that one always seems to work. 
Down load the 'Meeting Guide' app...Blue back ground with a white chair.
I don't know how many meetings are in your area but keep trying them until you find a good fit. Not all meetings are for everyone.
Quit telling my story!  ...Seriously. I went to a great young people's meeting for my first couple months sober. Then I moved. Not a real big AA community where I moved to \(it was overseas in Asia\). Only 2 meetings a week...I can relate to those feelings of anxiety for sure. For me that's where the phrase act my way into right thinking comes up. I'm anxious and scared to be honest but the program teaches me to pocket my pride and get to it in spite of myself. I typically find afterwards that I was anxious and scared for no reason.   ...Multiple moves later I still get those feelings of anxiety. I overcome them by being helpful instead of selfish. For me I get caught up in fear and anxiety over not fitting in not making good friends what if I'm not working my program the right way here etc. So I show up and I ask someone else how they are doing instead of being anxious about what I want to say. When I do finally say something I try to focus on being helpful to others. It gets me out of myself. ..But those are the sorts of actions that I take that I was taught to do by taking the steps in AA. I'm scared? Act in spite of that fear. Ask for that fear to be removed and direct my attention to what I am to be not what I'm afraid of. 
Is there an AA central office in your area that maintains an up to date meeting list?   It can take a bit of searching online.  Some areas maintain a phone hot line to help find meetings...If I want to be anonymous I'll pick a Friday or Saturday night speaker meeting that will probably be a big crowd arrive late leave early easy to get lost in the crowd.  Hopefully you'll hear something that brings you back.  And if you do this enough times maybe the anxiety will ease and you'll find a place to fit in..I sometimes have anxiety over sharing at meetings.  If asked to share I can always just say my name say I'm glad to be sober and then pass.  People have to respect that.  If anybody gets pushy  push back or leave and try another meeting...The third tradition says you only need a desire to not drink to be there.  You've earned your seat by your suffering and your desire to not drink just for today...Hang in there and keep trying.
If you build it they will come. You can always start your own groups too.
