-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8mlwo2/i_fell_again_but_i_will_get_up/

I had a bad relapse w a year clean.  Today was the anniversary of my mothers death.  I lost my mom brother father and aunt in a 4 year span starting at 25 years old.  They were all I had. ..I turned to alcohol and it did me no good.  My pancreas started to fail after a three month binge.  I've done treatment it helped temporarily.  I've done meetings but I've always had the god issue.  ..Are there any alternatives?  Anything that helped you get past it?  Once I have time I'm ok then after time I indulge.  I threw a year sobriety away.  I'm a single mom of a toddler and the future scares me.  When will enough be enough?  
----------immediate responses--------

My dear I am so sorry to hear of your struggles. ..Here's a saying. Maybe it applies. ...&gt;  When it is more difficult to suffer..&gt; Than to change;..&gt; We will change....My kids deserved a sober Mother. This fact helped motivate me to stay sober. 
Maybe it's time to get over the God issue...I had to suspend my disbelief.  It worked wonders.
If you can say with certainty that you will get up then you may not need AA; just don't drink.  If you're truly powerless over alcohol like me then you may need a power greater than yourself to solve your problem.  Finding that power worked for me.  I found that power by working the steps of AA just like millions before me had done.   .For years I kept thinking "I'll just stop drinking I know it will be hard but I must stop."  I could list many reasons why I couldn't drink the reality was that I couldn't not drink but I didn't know that.  Then I spent a year nearly homeless \(I lived in a car\) and during that time I realized I couldn't stop drinking; I wasn't getting off the roller coaster until it stopped and I had no power to stop it.    .Bill outlines in his story many of the arguments I used for years against God.  The chapter "We Agnostics" deflated my arguments against God.  The clincher for the second step came one night after a meeting when Bob a guy with multiple years of sobriety said the following to me: "God either is or he isn't and if you're anything like me and he's not you're probably fucked." I knew I was like Bob that statement hit me hard enough to open my mind enough to make a beginning.
AA saved my life. Seems to my your choices are give AA a chance and work out the higher power thing later or keep doing what your doing and see what happens. I know what choice I would make. Best of luck to you.
" If you are as seriously alcoholic as we were we believe there is no middle\-of\-the\-road solution. We were in a position where life was becoming impossible and if we had passed into the region from which there is no return through human aid we had but two alternatives: One was to go on to the bitter end blotting out the consciousness of our intolerable situation as best we could; and the other to accept spiritual help. "  .Not sure if you've passed through to that region yet but if you have I hope the decision isn't as tough for you as it was for me.  It seems like a no brainer but I still struggle with it.  
Here's my take on 'the god thing.'..I prayed not to be fired when they caught me smoking pot in the bathroom I prayed not to be arrested when I wrecked a car I prayed that the guy behind the door would give me a bundle and not just keep my money I prayed my mom would get off my back...If I can pray for that I can pray for a decent life.
Find an AA group of  Freethinkers  Agnostics or Atheists. You don't have to be a Christian to work the steps. You just need a group of likeminded people. My sponsor is an atheist. I am more of a progressive Christian who does not believe in divine intervention. ..Check out the podcast AA Beyond belief. There is also a website https://aaagnostica.org..Most Christians who got sober thru AA believe and profess that God/higher power is crucial to hour recovery. I believe and many many others will agree that sobriety and complete recovery is attainable without religion. 
Good question. No one can say when enough will be enough for you or if you'll ever stop for good. You'll know you're getting close if you look back over the past week and you were in AA meetings telling the truth more than a few times...If you look back and you've done zip to get better then realistically what should you expect other than the usual...You don't get to stop suffering without doing a lot of stuff you don't want to do and would never choose to do were it left up to you. When you look back and see you've done that during the last week you can reasonably have some hope. We generally get what our hands call for.
Hey if your staying sober and having a comfortable life keep doing what your doing!
