-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8mu52o/why_is_everyone_in_aa_old/

I am 30 years old and am struggling with alcoholism. I keep going to meetings but I can't find anyone to relate to. No offense to older people. How is there hope for me if no one my age is sober?
----------immediate responses--------

I'm 40 and there are people of all ages in all of my meetings. I look to the older people as inspiration and testament to the fact that sobriety CAN be achieved. I love hearing their stories as it gives me hope.
It varies a lot depending on the meeting try a young people's one if you can find one. I'm 27 and I go to my sponsor's preferred meetings with him but he's 50 and many of the people at the meeting are even older than that. It's hard for me to relate because they talk about having families and marriages and all that which I do not have. I talked to one of the younger guys and he recommended a young people's meeting that I really dig the vibe of. Even though there are some older folks there everyone is young at heart and it's a much less serious vibe overall even though the message remains in tact.
The meetings I attend are a true reflection of society. 19 year olds beside 70 year olds and every race/ethnicity you see on the street. I'm in the suburbs of Montreal so it's a wild variety from meeting to meeting. 
Just because we're older doesn't mean we're more sober than you. I get more from a first step meeting or looking into the eyes of someone coming back in than I do from some guy who has it all figured out. I get where you're coming from it's tough to relate to some of our shit. Whoever got up first has the most sobriety that day. .
I'm 29 years old and got sober at 24. By the grace of God I haven't had a drink since.  I know I'm blessed to have gotten sober in Cleveland where there are over 1400 meetings per week. But you can check and see if there are any "young people" meetings in your area or try meetings later at night. Keep coming back!!
The first meeting I attended regularly was near a college.  It was the closest to my aftercare...Most of the people were half my age...I was happy to find a meeting where i fit in.
Hiya I didn't feel like I was vulnerable/mortal until my late 30's. I always felt like those "old" people just didn't get it. I would "get it" and "get it together" in time. By the time I was in my mid forties I was fully addicted couldn't go a week and then later couple a days and then later a day without...The funny thing is that is what I have heard over and over. Most of my peers in the program didn't completely fall apart until their 30s and 40s and didn't get recovery until after. ..But I have seen kids that get it and keep it their entire lives. Interesting to see all the different ages.
Search for YPAA events near you (Young People in AA). Sometimes they host a meeting (ours was called The Young and the Restless- on Saturday night at 10 p.m.) during the week. I was 19 when I got sober and didn't find people my age until I moved to a bigger city. Pm me if you can't find any ypaas. My bf was big into ypaa and is still connected via facebook.
I'm 27 came in at 25. I'll echo checking a YP group. Keep at it I get told regularly by older folks that they wish they would have started in AA younger when they could have saved themselves some harder rock bottoms.
There might be something to be said about your observation regarding the disease of alcoholism. A lot of people don't find a solution to their disease until they hit  rock bottom  maybe a lot of people your age in your area are still in their addiction. I'm sure there is also some segment of people that encounter problems with alcohol and overcome them without becoming regular A.A. members as well. There could be a number of reasons why there aren't many people your age in your fellowship. Maybe you can view this as an opportunity though. I'm in the Bay Area and we have a branch of the fellowship that is specifically for younger members maybe you can look into developing something along those lines in your area. .          Perhaps there are people your age struggling with alcoholism that don't have anyone their age to relate to as well!
There are younger people in AA. It depends a lot on where you live. ..It is important to remember that people in AA with longterm sobriety may be the ones you need to talk with. They have wisdom. They know how to stay sober and can help you do the same.
ticknahoes: Respectfully it might just the meetings you attend and your community. If they are available check around. My meetings have 4-5) &lt; 20 year old.  1/4) 40-50. 1/4) 50+.   It also might be that it takes time for a person to recognise and admit their problem.   Question: You are 30 and an adult Why does this matter to you?  You are not the youngest to go to AA.  I was there at 17. Age and experience can be beneficial...
You get to be the person that the *next* person who is in their 20's/30's gets to see when they come to a meeting looking for people their age. Be there for them they'll come. In the meantime you get to learn from those that came before you. 
I'm 29 and I have been sober a year this Sunday. Keep coming back. Go to different meetings and explore different groups in your area. Maybe get one of the older guys to go with you to a meeting out of town. Talk with these people about how you feel. You will see younger people. Listen to people with GOOD sobriety  not necessarily a lot of time. I've met people from 14 to 80 but I didn't see those people as often as some. I would never have met different people if I didn't keep coming back to meetings. 
I was 33 when I got sober and felt ancient surrounded by kids as young as 17. Maybe change where you go to meetings?
depends on where you live. i moved from somewhere they were all old (made sense since it was a county that young people move OUT of) to a city where they are young and hip. what's the demographic in your area?
I got sober at 32. I've seen people get sober younger than that. Some people just don't know when to quit. They destroy their lives into their 50's. Some can recognize the problem sooner. Don't be the former. 
Except they're not. 
I'm a kid who got sober last year. My birth certificate says 1950. We're out there us young folks with gray hair. I can't count the rock band T-shirts I see in the rooms on folks my age. Keep coming. Comparisons tend to fade. 
What area do you live in? You should consider going to a YPAA conference. You can find a really solid network of young people in AA and even find out about meetings for YPAA. ..Also: Try to look for similarities in stories rather than differences. Alcoholics always have at least one thing in common and that one thing typically makes way for similar stories we've all been through.
I'm 24 my sobriety date is 1/28/15. Been sober over 3 years. There are young people who get sober and stay that way. Look for ypaa groups in almost every major city in America we have conferences with hundreds of young sober men and women who fellowship and get wild. 
I got sober at age 27 and am now 46. Most people are/were older. My first sponsor was 10 years older than me which isn't THAT much older. Try different meetings. There may be some Young People specific meetings or a meeting near a university...My eventual best friend in AA was 44 years older than me. It's not about age it's about staying sober one day at a time. It's about doing the steps...Some of those old people may have sobered up at your age. They're old because they didn't drink and didn't die.
I got sober at 29.  I am old now. 
I'm 34. Got sober at 29...If you're near a big city try to find a young people's meeting. That's where I went to get sober...I realized later that mpst of the older people got sober when they were my age.
Go to a different meeting. 
It really just depends on the meetings/locations. A lot of times you can sort by  young people  meetings on the inter group site for that city. I would recommend meeting hoping until you find one with a younger crowd. Or ask people at the meetings you go to if they know of any with younger people. ..Young people in AA are a thing. I'm 26 and I've been in the game for 3 years. But other commenters are right it doesn't matter how old someone is as or how long they've been sober as long as you get something out of it. 
Same as many I went to my first aa meeting at 23 sober since 24 and coming up to 28 now. Depends on the area for me. Got sober in London where there were other people my age but also lived in a small town where I was the youngest person by 20 years. However a couple of them got sober in their 20's. ..I just don't want to drink mate. Still same thought processes and stuff. I just listen to the people who are calm have their shit together are honest and humble. Look for the similarities as they say. . . 
When I first came into AA I'd look at members your age and was sure they couldn't understand me or my situation. I found many of them had come in at my age or younger and had stayed sober for a long time. They knew what it was like to have had enough and want to stop in their early 20s...You've no reason to feel badly for waiting so long to change for the better. Any age is a good time to get sober. But try hard not to call those alcoholics who show up young 'kids'. They just wised up quicker..
Because they quit drinking.
Depends where you are located.. Where I am we have 150 person meeting all young people. Maybe 10 old timers. 
My city doesn't have this going on. There are gobs of people in their 20s and 30s.          ..You might consider sharing your feelings on this at a meeting. You would probably be surprised how many shared or similar stories you have. Find people you can relate to but also find people who you can look up to as well. 
If you live in a larger city there should be young people's meetings around! Google AA + the name of your city and there should be an online meeting directory...There are YPAA (young people in AA) conventions in most states. They can be pretty cool! You could ask some of the older folks in your meeting if they know of any meetings with more young people. I'm sure they won't get offended...Some communities have a strong NA fellowship that you might have more luck with finding people your age...Rehab meetings can use the attendance and usually have some younger people...Good luck! It's important to feel like one of many and the best way to do that is to find your people!
Young person here. I'm 28 starting going to AA around 24 and thought  holy shit they all have hearing aids . Fast forward to now and I realized that I was just seeing all the differences and isolating myself from alcoholics who could help me. I didn't want their help. I've moved to a younger area and have a wider range of ages here but the old timers/older people speak some amazing shit sometimes. Experience is important to learn from.
Try more meetings. There are tons out there. My Monday meeting has 20 year olds and 70 year olds in it. Huge meeting and it splits into 3...As to your observation it's unfortunate that sometimes people rage against themselves and wallow in alcoholism for much of their lives and haven't  had enough  until they're a bit older at times. So you might find AA to be older...I'm 32. Got sober last year. It's great. Be grateful you found it when you did. Some people lose organs jobs loved ones and anything else of value that you can lose to this disease...There are people your age out there though! It's not as old as it looks. 
That's when shit hits the fan for folks I'm only 36 but felt the same way when I tried this earlier. At a certain age you don't care what is normal anymore and just get help. 
They're old because they didn't die from alcoholism. 
30 years old. I felt the exact same way. PM me if you want to chat. 
Let me guess... u are going to meetings near your residence? Rural/suburban area?
I'm in Ny. Plenty of young people.  
