-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8nqgtx/i_hate_the_world/

Hi guys I've got 13 years sober in aa a girlfriend a job I'm in grad school a four sponsees lots of good stuff but I just see dead ends everywhere I look in life. I'm in an interracial relationship and I love her dearly but I struggle with feelings of racism. I also feel like in the current political climate and the dire direction our country is headed in that there's no way we can make it work in the long run and that our mixed child will just get bullied all the time. I'm angry at the left and at the right I'm just angry I feel like I could murder people and not feel bad about it. I feel like every day the news and social media just beat me over the head with more and more bad news and negativity. I'm in grad school to be a social worker and it's bullshit just one long course on how to be politically correct and I feel like I won't make enough money to live on either. I keep wanting to get my second wind at aa but I'm so bored with it I've heard everything they have to say. I had this awesome sponsor but he got murdered last year (case is unsolved too). Ever since then I've had a couple sponsors but nobody I really feel a connection with. I got on a good antidepressant and it's helped a lot but it's DESTROYED my sex drive. I just feel like the future has more misery in store for me than I can handle and it'd be better if I just blew my brains out now and got it over with. And yes you read that right I have 13 years sober. 
----------immediate responses--------

If I may suggest the 24 hour news media and social media were huge triggers for me emotionally. The way I see FB/Instagram/Twitter is that we're literally reading each other's unfiltered thoughts. Stream of consciousness no passing through the mouth. I had to leave social media and for the most part Reddit too save for this sub /r/leaves and /r/stopdrinking. My life is significantly better. My dad still watches the news and every day he comes home angry and defeated. As someone who was formerly in journalism/advertising all the media does is poke your emotions and try to control you in your subconscious. Anger allows for jealousy and envy to creep their way into you and boom the craving starts. For what exactly? What commercial did you just watch.  ...Best of luck \&lt;3
You are going to be ok. Expressing your feelings is healthy. Suggestion: get back into that boring AA meeting. Pronto. You can do this. Stay connected with us and check in often.
It sounds like you may have some resentments. As emotional upsets come up I have to fourth and fifth step them to get through. Talk to your sponsor if you have one. When I am extremely emotional about a situation it usually has way more to do with me than it does with actual circumstances. Don't lose hope. This will pass. 
You're on an antidepressant.  Do you see a therapist weekly?
Every antidepressant I tried did the same to me. It's like ok I'm not crying and wanting to die everyday but I can't have an orgasm.  My doctor told me to fake it! Yuck.  Effexor did not have that effect but it did cause insomnia and really horrible nightmares after several months.  It got me over the hump and served its purpose.  ..In the beginning of my sobriety I decided to accept help wherever I could find it.  I don't know if it was the combination of meetings therapy and antidepressants or just one or two of those things but I stuck with all of them just in case.  Maybe a crises is a crises no matter how much sobriety we have. One of my dear friends who has 27 years sobriety in aa just shared that it's the same tools she used in early sobriety that still save her ass today. ..The news is yuck.  The world is yuck depending on my attitude. I can't tell you how many times I've said  "I hate the world" or "I hate people". We know that it's not all bad.  There are a lot of good people.  You are a good person or you wouldn't be worried about these things.  Please stay with us and shine that light of yours on others.  
Well we are all given a daily reprieve based on the maintenance of our spiritual condition. So what are you doing to connect to your higher power?
Work the steps for gods sakes. And if you feel like murdering people you might consider letting your sponsees go too. 
I get it I've been sober over 10 years now and I'm almost anti-AA.  I would suggest exercise daily hobbies friends not in AA.  Like you need a life.  AA can still be a part of it. But it's not everything for me anymore. 
Is it possible you're too close to some of this stuff that isn't working for you? There is a massive corporate financial news system and I've got news for you: the entire GOAL of it is to make you feel shitty. It is intentionally mentally and emotionally manipulative every written or spoken word of it is specifically weighed and considered to have the most impact on your own personal well\-being. Social work is probably a positive thing for you to do but I imagine that you're up to your eyeballs in intentionally mentally negative energy.                 ..You gotta take care of yourself before you can take care of others.
Hey my friend. Sounds like you've got a lot going on...I don't pretend to understand the loss that you faced/are facing with the loss of your sponsor. I'm sorry for your loss. That's a tough one. I do remember feeling \(and still do feel\)  a lot like I'm never going to find a connection like that again. About a year ago I had just moved and left behind a sponsor that I really connected with. Had trouble finding someone that I'm able to open up with the same way here. I share inventories with friends more often these days. Someone that I'm able to actually tell things to. But I'm having trouble finding a sponsor that I can really feel like we can relate. ..I've been in places \(emotionally spiritually\) in sobriety where I hate the world though for different reasons than you I think understand where you're coming from at least in part. I get bitter and jaded in the 24 hour news cycle I'm in constant pain \(injuries turned to arthritis\) and that really wears on me. Its easy for me to forget some things about what I do and why I do it...I did stumble across this writing by Bill W. that you've probably seen before one day about 6 months ago. Whenever the world starts to look really grim this helps me a ton: [http://silkworth.net/pages/aahistory/general/emotionalsobriety.php](http://silkworth.net/pages/aahistory/general/emotionalsobriety.php)..It was a letter from Bill W. to a fellow "old\-timer" at the time. It talked about dealing with depression etc. even after his 20\+ years sober at the time he wrote that letter...This talk by Tom B. had kept me company more than once on my drive to work. It relates to and is largely based on the things in that letter from Bill W. to his friend.  [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6Q3Lna5ePnw](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6Q3Lna5ePnw)  ...Spiritual growth is like the stock market. Sometimes it has downturns. That's normal from my experience. We all have times that things just look bleak \(Its always darkest before the dawn comes to mind\).   ...Also I took anti\-depressants for about a year in sobriety. Then I found that they 'turned' on me. I started feeling worse when I was taking them than when I wasn't. This was my experience. I'm not trying to make any commentary on yours. YMMV. But if you're feeling this way it may be worth discussing with the doctor about dosages type of med etc. If you're on anti\-depressants the world shouldn't look like a dead end. That may mean that its not working like it should. I am NOT qualified to make that assessment for you though but it seems inconsistent with the intent of them.
Regarding the antidepressant: try another one. It's not worth losing your sex drive over and there's tons of different types that all affect the brain differently. I eventually found one that gave me no side effects (Paxil). ..And keep an eye out for a new sponsor. Anyone who you hear at a meeting whose message you like get their number. Meet them for coffee. Work the steps again. Lots of love to you don't stop doing the work. Too many people go back out after many years and the lucky ones end up right back in the halls wishing they'd never left
