-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8o9nq0/asking_for_advice_to_support_not_sure_if_this_is/

Hoping for some advice from different perspectives here...I am dating an alcoholic - that is working on recovery but I don't always know best ways to support the journey to recovery...In all honesty - the majority of our relationship has been sober with a few bumps along the way. We've been dating for about 6 months and after starting to date - sobriety was there for about 5 months - a huge accomplishment! Then a few times in the last month there have been relapses...The challenges for me have been that even though the majority of what we have experienced together has been sobriety - there have been a lot of challenges along the way that at least in part relate to the alcoholism. Low self esteem/confidence depression self doubt lack of trust etc...It has been tough for me because I don't really know how to deal with a lot of these things. I have been told a lot that I don't care/love/want to be with this person - despite evidence to the contrary. This can become very defeating - and maybe at some point becomes a bit of self fulfilling as it's tough to be with someone who doesn't accept the fact that you do indeed want to be with them...I also don't know what to do and/or how to help when relapses occur. I want to be supportive - but also want to not enable self destructive behavior. What do I do to accept the person and not the behavior...Thoughts are appreciated.
----------immediate responses--------

Hook up with Alanon. They are the experts in dealing with what your dealing with. 
Few alcoholics do what it takes to remain sober for good. They also don't drink several times during the last month. ..If you go with this one everything you build together can be lost of an evening and nothing is secure. A few too many drinks and the drunk girfriends will start banging on the garage door on Friday nights and you can begin your expanding disease collection...Or you can find another that you probably won't have to watch become helpless unproductive and full of fear. Your call.
Seek out the folks at alanon they are wonderful people that can offer you the the support you need. I'll think good thoughts for you. 
If there's been been a few incidents in the past month then the alcoholic is in a slip one slip and are not in recovery. Ask them to start their sobriety over again  or leave until they can.  No one can love you well when they are in an acute phase of an illness.  
If he's in AA there is a general suggestion that you don't date in the first year of sobriety. Dating itself is a huge trigger and you end up dragging the person you've hooked down w you when and if you go out if they are not smart enough to cut bate. I recommend to get out as harsh as that sounds. At the very least go to Alanon. I drug my poor husband all through creation. I'm so lucky to be sober and still married today. 
Alanon for sure can help. To speak for your partner AA is big on telling you to wait 1 year of sobriety before starting a relationship. It's hard to work on yourself and your sobriety while trying to work on a relationship someone else. Not that people don't do this sometimes successfully! 
Check out /r/alanon this post would be more appropriate on that subreddit. 
&gt;It has been tough for me because I don't really know how to deal with a lot of these things. I have been told a lot that I don't care/love/want to be with this person - despite evidence to the contrary. This can become very defeating - and maybe at some point becomes a bit of self fulfilling as it's tough to be with someone who doesn't accept the fact that you do indeed want to be with them...I am not offering advice. This is your decision. I am just going to give you my experience...I had several girlfriends I said these exact things to. I don't know what you know of his previous drinking life but I had extreme self esteem issues associated with heavy drinking that made it much worse. I didn't have a live in girlfriend until I met my wife. I told her stuff like this all along. ..I was trying to warn her and them. I knew for twenty years that I was a ticking time bomb...I put my wife through hell. For twenty years. I quit and started back so many times it was awful. The longest was over a year and a half. This only made my self esteem worse. If was getting chips back then I'd have a thousand white chips. I was guilty and ashamed because I couldn't even stay sober after our child was born. I'd come home late with no money. She kept forgiving me and I kept letting us all down. I didn't want to but I was powerless and weak.  .And she stuck by me. We fought and had separate rooms.  We didn't talk for days. Then of course I'd get it back "under control" and there would be romance and conjugal visits. Every time I got things together and it got better the next time I started to drink again it got progressively worse and the really bad episodes the black outs the drunk driving the cravings got worse and worse. ..Without the program and the meetings I wouldn't have made the recovery I have but I'm ever mindful and know that I can never claim to have recovered. My wife is still here. But she probably shouldn't be. ..We both had to get used to the idea that our love and hard work at it couldn't cure me. ..But I wish you luck. 
