-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8ogd54/dry_drunk_for_almost_11_months_need_advice_f24/

Hi I'm Sammy I'm an alcoholic.   .My last drink was 321 days ago but I'm struggling.. Not so much with my desire to drink but with my mental well being while sober. I can't seem to get into AA and I feel guilty. This past year I've been to maybe fifteen meetings or less. The only reason I've managed to stay sober this long without AA is because I've completely isolated myself. I only leave my room to go to work my crappy part time job and that doesn't even always happen. I spend every other minute alone in bed. I can't live like this. It's not working anymore and I know I need to change but I can't even get up. How can I overcome this? Please send anything my way! I'm desperate. Thanks 
----------immediate responses--------

You've done amazingly well to get to where you are I am at the very start of my journey and already slipping up and relapsing. Do you suffer anxiety? Maybe go to your doctors they might be able to give you something to get you back on your feet out into the world where you can really begin to enjoy your new sober life. It's going to be amazing once you do! Good luck x
Hi. All I know is that aa although not always comfortable helped me through my emotional challenges. Especially a sponsor. Someone I could confide in openly about my depression anxiety loneliness etc. And then I listened to my sponsor's suggestions. And I took baby steps of some actions to help pull me out of my dark places. I also saw my dr.
Sammy  as someone who is an alcoholic and also suffers with  outside issues  (bi-polar disorder and PTSD) I would recommend trying to get linked up with a therapist who understands alcoholism and mental health. My personal therapist is a Licensed Alcohol and Drug Addiction Counselor and a Licensed Mental Health Clinician who understands and supports AA as well as the mental health piece. It is not uncommon that as alcoholics we use alcohol to mask symptoms of some underlying mental health issue so it may be a worthwhile to check out. ..-Andi P. (F/29/2.5 years sober)
Have you spoken to your doctor? As mentioned maybe you need some support for depression and/or anxiety. AA some won't help that if it's medically needed. ..Good luck. If you need to reach out to anyone feel free to pm me. 
.You are in the right place - you are not alone..I had such grief for the life I'd lost. I had so much of my identity wrapped up in my using - there was a real loss. Honoring my feelings and sharing them at meetings were (and are) a real way for me to deal. Not only do I feel better when I've spilled but the vulnerability allows people to share what they are going through - I gain connection and connection is a crucial part of fellowship. ...I tried for decades to repress/avoid/numb them. .The fuckers waited for me. ...But with abstinence from booze drugs binge eating I lost pretty much all my coping mechanisms and the PTSD from a traumatic childhood began to really kick in. ..It took me a long time to realise I needed outside help that the steps were not going to help with everything rather they had put me in a place where I was able to be completely honest with myself and so completely honest with a psych. ....I didn't get to regular meetings until I was desperate. ..It took absolute desperation to counter the anxiety I had when leaving the house. ..The first two months were the worst. I didn't know anyone yet I didn't know what meetings worked for me (mostly queer) and which ones set my teeth on edge (not that many as it turns out but some). ..No way could I do 90 meetings in 90 days - three a week was my aim (and still is). ..For me I was so desperate to stay sober I went to meetings. When I freaked out I would break it down to small steps. ..Get out of bed. ..Go to the bathroom. ..Find pants/shoes/coat put them on. ...Go to the front door. ..Go through the front door. ..Big thinking was too hard but if I could break it down into baby steps I was ok. ..Some locations have a local AA office  where you can call anytime. ..I'm guessing you may not have grabbed anyone's phone number?.If I'm wrong (hopefully) call that person. ..Advice as requested. Call and say some person on the internet said it was a suggestion for your recovery but you have no idea what to say - but you don't want to drink. ..It was only when my fear of picking up grew greater than my social anxiety that I found the courage to change. ..You are in the right place - we have your back. 
The disease wants us miserable but will settle for killing us...In my area the local intergroup office can arrange for someone to come to your house to talk or to take you to a meeting.  There are on-line and Skype options too...Don't stop now.
Tired of working and doing nothing else? Tired of no personal growth? How about not having any good coping skills ? If so then get in gear! If ehh you like where tour at keep doing that 
Hiya thanks for sharing. You being able to be courageous and honest not only helps yourself but it can help someone else who is feeling similarly but is afraid to type about it...One of the great things about getting into 'recovery' whether it is Alcoholics Anonymous or SMART Recovery or whatever is that we are working on helping ourselves for ourselves. I used to think I had to get sober for work or my wife or my family or whatever. I finally understood that none of that really matters. What matters is I get to finally start to work on myself and there is no doubt in my mind that alcohol kept me from so many of my goals and dreams. But I learned it was more than that. ..For many of us alcohol is symptom of our other problems. That was so true for me. I had some trust fear and anger issues that I used alcohol to hide from. I also had a small medical issue that I used alcohol to treat. Needless to say not only did alcohol not treat those issues but it caused other problems: depression self esteem and a few physical issues...Once I got into recovery enough where I wasn't obsessing daily about the next drink (for me it was doing the steps - everyone has a different journey) I started going to my health care professionals. It is amazing how fast I was able to fix some of my issues now that I was not pouring all that alcohol into my system. It was truly amazing how much I healed and how quickly the doctors found a path to maintain and stabilize my ongoing issues.. .Anyway I wish you all the best. I have been in the program now for a number of years and my story is similar to many of my friends in AA. Almost all of my closest AA friends had slight to large medical issues that once sober they were able to get on a path toward a solution much faster and much more thoroughly than before. ..Give yourself a huge hug and high fives. You did something cool today. You started worked on making a change for yourself. How cool is that!!! Congratulations. Keep up the great work.
You already see the problem. Self\-Isolation was one of my biggest problems and it still is... but you already know the answer. Now you just have to figure out what stops you. Have you get yourself checked for depression or other mental issues besides alcohol addiction?
You're doing a great job so far dry drunk or not. Echoing others in their questions are you seeking treatment for your mental side? I see a therapist which has helped me talk about my issues and work through them. I'm a very private person so it helps to have an impartial ear. ..I used to run from my mental issues because I was afraid of labels. It just led me down the path to alcoholism. I am on Wellbutrin and Lexapro and while medication is not a 100% fix it has helped level my mind tremendously. I still have to work hard on days where I don't want to get out of bed or just want to give in but I find those days are much less than they were. I recently slipped/relapsed so I am increasing my therapy frequency and have a psychiatrist appointment to make sure I am on the right medication/path because I let my mental issues start to take over again. I think it's very important for me to see mental health professionals as maintenance of my sobriety. ..What works for me might not work for you but I've learned I have to stay on top of myself or else I just spiral back down into self-pity and self-hate which I consider dangerous for myself to linger in. 
Hi Sammy. I'm Nick an alcoholic...  .tldr; What have you got to lose in getting a sponsor and working through steps? \(again if you've already done it\)...There's a phrase that you reminded me of when you said "I can't seem to get into AA..."..We can't think our way into good living. We gotta live our way into good thinking...For me I was a re\-tread. I was in and out of the rooms for years. Sometimes with sobriety of multiple months or years. Never attended meetings regularly. I never worked through all 12 steps either. Never got to know people. It took me 13 years from my first meeting until I had enough pain to say "well... maybe I should actually DO the things they were telling me to do all this time. I don't know what else to do anymore." My life was shit. I felt like shit...Even in sobriety I have times where I feel like shit. I don't want to get out of bed. I don't want to be helpful. I don't want to do anything except for watch TV or play with my phone stay up late and eat candy in bed or on the couch...Then I end up doing something where I either hear that phrase or remember that phrase or something like it. Then I realize 2 things: 1\) Oh yeah. To feel better I need to *DO* something. Action comes first for me. When I do things that are uncomfortable and not what I want to be doing and instead they are for the betterment of someone else or myself no matter how contrary they are to my natural inclination I get better. I feel better. Huh... Go figure. 2\) I always forget what I'm supposed to be doing. I have a built in forgetter. I have to keep coming to AA subreddits meetings etc. in order to remember what I'm supposed to be doing. I have to hear what works from others I have to hear what doesn't work from others otherwise I'm going to either drink again or just be miserable. Because I forget. I forget how much it sucked to be drinking. I forget how much pain I can be in while sober if I'm not taking action. ..I had to take action. I had to learn that I don't have the answers and instead do the steps and learn just how screwed up I was in order to even learn what those actions were/are. If you want a recommendation that's what I'd say. ..I still don't always feel like I fit in around AA groups/some members. But I do have some people that I feel like they can relate to me and I can relate to them.
I was dry drunk for over a year and a half before I committed to AA. Within two months of deciding I couldn't do it alone I got a sponsor home group and service position. Doing the steps with a sponsor and getting a home group made a huuuuge difference. Things are still tough at times but my coping skills are different and better. 
I also struggle with mental health issues. And getting out of bed is a daily struggle for me too. With that said I'm 2.5 years sober full time job and am married now. Still struggle every day. I was able to find groups that deal with this duel issues of depression and addiction. You are not alone by having both!! I also go to a dr a therapist meetings. I don't necessarily want to   but I do it because when I went to rehab I chose to live. So I'm living. .Also I think finding a sponsor can be very difficult. Took me almost 2 years! All of my sponsors along the way we're nice but when I got to the deep dark parts I wasn't comfortable. I think it's ok to keep searching and changing sponsors until you find someone. .It sounds like you know that being trapped in your room is the same as being trapped in the bottle... I hope you know you aren't alone though 
AA isn't for everyone.  It wasn't for me.  But that being said I believe that you need to be talking to *somebody*.  We drank like we did because we couldn't (or can't) deal with life the same way other people do.  I firmly believe that unless we figure out why we were drinking that way and then actually learn to deal with that we're not going to move forward and the best we can hope for is Dry Drunk.  Don't feel bad about not being able to get into AA.  It works for a lot of people but it doesn't work for everyone.  You should be very proud of yourself for getting this far no matter how much of a mess your life feels.  Find a therapist.  Find a group.  Reach out to a friend.  While I don't personally think it's enough subs like this one or /r/stopdrinking can help.  You've found sobriety now it's time to find your life again.  You can do it. 
&gt; I can't seem to get into AA..I know it is harder in different areas but try different meetings if you can.  Despite having more meetings than I can count very very close to home I've still driven 30-45+ minutes to try out another meeting.  We have 400+ a week around here and not every meeting is going to fit every person ... it took me more than a month of "shopping around" before I settled on the group I was most comfortable at for my home group...And somewhere along the way get yourself a sponsor and start going through the book with them and doing the work...Putting the plug in the jug is NOT enough - that is actually a very very dangerous path as you're losing your coping tool and you're not cleaning out the crap you need to cope with nor are you gaining any new tools.  It is very very important to at least *start* doing the work in your first year.  Not doing it or putting it off is absolutely going to lead to misery...This program works because people do what is suggested - you are not - so there is no surprise it is not working for you.  If you want to feel better and really give it a shot do what is suggested - go to meetings get a home group get active in that home group get a sponsor and start doing the work...THAT is what turns our lives around - not putting the plug in the jug.
Hit more meetings. You'll here things that will help the program click for you. Read we agnostics again as well too. The spiritual experience is what relieved a lot of my mental burden. My anxiety depression uncertainty etc have been largely taken away and the program has taken on a new importance for me. 
Wow my experience has been the opposite I'm sorry to hear that you're suffering.            ..One thing we have to learn in sobriety is to reengage with life. You're describing very common alcoholic traits. Isolation. Reticence. Lethargy. Apathy. Unnecessary guilt.             ..I love AA and I love being sober. My life has never been this good and I have never been this calm focused content and at peace. I go to meetings 5\-7 times a week sometimes multiple times per day. I always feel better after going.              ..We have a glib saying that "when you take the alcohol away from the alcoholic all you are left with is the ick." AA is a program of *action.* It requires that we *do things*. One of my AA mentors \(not my sponsor\) is constantly reminding me that I have to get up make my bed get dressed and go out into the world and show up.
Hi Sammy. I think you should give AA a chance. 15 meetings over a year isn't really gonna do much for you. You will find that everyone ultimately is in the rooms for the same reason they want to get sober. Some peoples stories and experiences will be rougher than yours and some will seem mild to you but the point is that listening  and talking about our problem is therapeutic. Try to find a regular meeting or two or more a week to attend regularly. You will know when the time is right to find a sponsor and work the steps. It took me a few months to begin working the steps but that's when my life really began to change for the better. Now AA is not for everyone but AA and the rooms saved this binge drinking blackout drunks life and I've been sober almost 3.5 years. Best of luck to you.
a spiritual malady requires a spiritual solution. step work will help you. work the steps to help yourself and then start helping others. i had 11 years but i had no spiritual condition and i drank and in 3 years i tried to kill myself. i lost my family and now i have to do something different. i just worked the 8th step with my sponsor and i have 49 days. it works. prayer will give you a sense of belonging to something greater. turn your will and life over to the care of god as you understand it. trust your higher power.
Thx for the jog down memory lane. I had 8mo as a "dry drunk" before I was so f'n miserable the choice was either put a gun to my head or start drinking again. I drank for a few years after that until that didn't work either. And that's when I finally hit the point where I was willing to do ANYTHING. I wanted to kill myself but didn't want to die if that makes sense. So here's what I did.....-Went to a 30-day 12-step based rehab facility (I didn't know it was 12-step based or I wouldn't have gone because I believed AA was somewhere between a crock of shit a cult religious &amp; not for me)..-Got a sponsor &amp; worked the steps..-Sponsor asked me to do 90-in-90 &amp; I grudgingly did only because I was willing to do whatever it took &amp; he was a happy joyous &amp; free dude..-Worked the steps in about 2 months &amp; then again at 9mo and 2 years or so..-Seriously tried to work the program &amp; steps in EVERY aspect of my life..-Built a routine for my day based on page 86 of the Big Book..Today I'm typically happy joyous &amp; free. Everything's pretty damn great but not perfect. Actually I just feel normal &amp; that's OK for me today. 
Thank you - had another meeting today and it went really well I am beginning to feel much more positively about this whole new chapter in my life...You can and will find the courage. You've done so well to get as far as you have already I am in awe! Just channel that energy and you will realise how amazing and capable you truly are! 
