-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8oq2wg/herniated_disk_and_medication_help/

So I've been out of work with some back pain for a few weeks. After physical therapy wasn't helping an MRI showed a herniated disk is pushing on some nerves. My doctor knows that I'm an alcoholic so we've been careful with medication. Now I need to see a neurologist and I'm worried about some prescriptions that might be offered could lead me to a relapse. I'm avoiding pain killers so far but I'm worried the discomfort I'm dealing with every day might eventually make me take something stronger than Aleve. Anyone here been in a similar situation? And for further background I'm an alcoholic but drugs are also part of my story and I'm at 9 months sober so this is new and sketchy ground. 
----------immediate responses--------

Keep moving as much as possible. Try aquatic therapy. Make sure PT knows about your desire to get pain relief without drugs. Msg me if you want. I'd be glad to discuss and help problem solve. 
i had a similar situation. the thing that worked best for me was the cortisone shot.they prescribed tramodol because its non narcotic. i took it as prescribed and i did ok. the main thing you have to realize is getting down to the causes and conditions of why you drank in the first place. we have a spiritual malady. the only solution is a spiritual one. get connected to your higher power as you understand it. turn your will and your life over and you will be fine.
DM me
No doctors here.  What worked for one person may not work for you as your situation is certainly different from theirs.  I took prescription muscle relaxers pretty early in sobriety and had no issues.  Haven't taken any opioids but never enjoyed any of the opioids that has been prescribed to me before sobriety either...As long as your doctors are aware of the situation they're the best people to help you decide what's the best treatment for you.  ..Hit your stepwork hard to at least keep yourself spiritually healthy during all of this.  ..Good luck.  Back problems are the worst.  
Hi. I'm Nick. Alcoholic. Chronic pain patient...Though it wasn't back pain I did shatter my elbow 8 years ago \(I'm 5 years sober\). 2 reconstructive surgeries and I am in pain every day. Some days I get to wake up pain free. Those are more rare. By the end of the day its always sore sometimes very painful. I can definitely relate to the fear that someday I'll need something more what will I do about it?..I remember after my first surgery I tried to do no pain meds. The nurse came to check on me at 3am and I was just laying there staring at the wall with tears running down my face. Not crying just staring with my eyes leaking. It was excruciating with seemingly no end in sight. She took one look at me and wet to get morphine. I was in so much pain I didn't care. I didn't really have a full understanding of my alcoholism at the time though I knew I was an addict. I was off to the races. That was the beginning of the end of my drinking/use career. It took me 3 years to make it to a meeting. ..3 years of far more pain than those 2 days in the hospital would have been...If I was in that situation again I don't know what I would do. But I know who I would lean on for support today. ..I have that fear you describe. That someday I might be in that position again. What will I do about it?..My sponsor friends in AA etc. like to remind me at this point that its just fear. "Fear ought to be classed with stealing. It seems to cause more trouble." This also reminds me of that one phrase \(though its not necessarily about fear its still relevant\): "To the extent that we allow these do we squander the hours that might have been worthwhile." I share my fears with my friends. They remind me about putting these things in my higher power's hands...If I live in that fear I won't live my life today. I'll be preoccupied by my pain instead of living my life...So what do I do to mitigate that fear? I have to take action. When I get scared I do my physical therapy exercise/stretching. When the pain hits I do my physical therapy. Talk with your doctor about getting started as soon as it is safe to do so would be my recommendation. Physical therapy will make me stronger and less likely for that fear to come true. Staying in that fear will keep me from using my arm as much and I'll be more likely to have that fear come true. ..I CANNOT speak for your exact physical condition. You need to speak with your doctor about it. I am not a doctor. But I can speak for how alternative pain management has helped me. And I'm at a point where I rarely take meds now \(I mean ibuprofen or aleve or tylenol. I save them for the really rough days\) and I'm still in constant pain and able to stay positive and live my life.
Thanks all for sharing your words and a bit of research has put me a little more at ease. It's just one of those  life happens 'sort of things I'm a little more confident that I work a good enough program to manage what this situation is throwing at me. 
I'm not speaking on behalf of AA. A physical therapist is a primary care provider who is an expert in musculoskeletal rehabilitation. So yes having a conversation with the PT is exactly the correct course of action. Maintaining motion and mobility to one's tolerance is exactly what a person with a back injury should do vs. ceasing to walk or move. Cheers! 
Don't get ahead of yourself. I've had a couple of surgeries and back issues while in sobriety all the situations for me required I take doctor prescribed pain meds during recovery. I turned my meds over to family members. I'm not going to play around with that. As stated before get your medical advice from a doctor in person give us a shout if you want to chat about the steps. I'll think good thoughts for you. 
