-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8p42cu/partner_struggling/

Hi all..I've been with my partner for four years now and it was made clear to me around a year in that he has a drinking problem. He's  high-functioning  if we can call it that. He never ever misses work even if he is sick or only got three hours of sleep. ..My problem is with the lying and hiding. He will tell me he's coming home at x time and then I won't hear from him until hours later when he stumbles home drunk. He says he only has had two or three beers over the course of the whole day... then how is he so wasted? It's obviously a lie. ..We've had so many issues in our relationship caused by his drinking and he was even fired from his last job because he was caught drinking on the job... the night before he swore to me he hadn't had anything and the next day he texts to apologize for lying and that he was fired from work from drinking bottles of wine on the clock. ..He works in a bar and all his coworkers and friends drink in fact the only activities they ever do when they hang out is drink... and most of his family enables him and will take him out to drink or pay for his habit. His brother even mentioned to me once that  his liver is shot  as a joke. ..I'm really tired of getting yelled at for my concerns fights over nothing being behind on bills because alcohol comes first... he is not the man I fell in love with. He doesn't take care of himself and it breaks my heart. We've had several conversations about his problem and he has admitted it but nothing ever gets resolved. ..Anything I can do before I just simply pack up my boxes? ..I'm 27 F and he will be 30 this year if it makes any difference. ..tldr my partner is a  high functioning  alcoholic and his problem has caused our relationship tons of turmoil. Anything else I can do before packing my bags? 
----------immediate responses--------

Try posting over at /r/alanon. Alanon is a 12 step group for the family/friends of alcoholics. 
Call alanon in your community.  They have the solution to your problem.   
What are you doing to take care of yourself and be happy? Alanon is for you. Supportive and understanding. You don't have to live this way. Your significant other will not get better until he is ready to. There is nothing you can do. Is this very very hard to process when you care about the person. The best thing to do often is to get out of the way.
