-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8p6k89/working_the_steps/

Hello. I was in AA and sober for one year. I've been out for three years and back for a short time in the middle. I began struggling with the concept of a sponsor and working the steps. I feel that I benefited from going to the meetings. I enjoyed the social aspect of it and being around people that understood what I was going through. Once I quit going I drank socially but within a year I was back to if not worse than before AA. Does anyone feel like you can be successful in the program without working the steps? Thank you.
----------immediate responses--------

The program is the steps so no you can not be successful in the program without doing the steps. You mean the fellowship. I can not stay sober on fellowship alone. And if you're a real alcoholic then fellowship alone won't work for you either. If it does you're probably not an alcoholic. 
In my opinion no. At best you will remain where you are at mentally emotionally and spiritually when you stopped drinking. What I observe of people that come to A.A. that don't work the steps is they get clean from alcohol and initially enjoy the new freedom from drinking and their life becomes a bit better. They become comfortable with this feeling but unless they are working to change themselves through working the steps eventually their past behaviors or life choices come back and usually force them to drink again. I'm sure it's not impossible to not work the steps and remain sober but the compelling evidence is that it is much harder to do because there is no progress being made in their life. It's like a sailboat trying to make it to land without the wind. Sure the currents might push you there eventually but it's not a very good chance of that happening.
There is more to getting well than simply not drinking. The steps taught me more about myself than I ever wanted to know but they also opened a door to a happy sober life. I learned how to cope with emotions take responsibility for my behavior and let go of things I cannot control. ..There is no law that you have to work the steps. However I know life would be hollow had I not done so. 
One poster commented that they couldn't stay sober on the fellowship alone. I have and can. But I won't have intensively studied the core of my problem. I won't have actually *changed me* and that is the ultimate goal. Personal growth. The group meetings the discussion the book study help immensely. The fellowship is what I love the most. I haven't started the steps yet in any formal way. As a self described atheist though not hostile to religion I have a lot of philosophical problems with it. But it's coming...The point of the steps is to help one change the things that got them here in the first place. I have watched someone clearing the steps one at a time and can attest to the change I saw in that persons life. I will be ready soon. I haven't even gotten a real sponsor yet. The group isn't worried about me or my committment enough to push it they are allowing me to proceed and participate at my own pace. ..Every group is different but it's *your* recovery ultimately. You have to make your decisions about your participation.
At risk of discouraging you from doing the steps I will answer honestly that yes I believe you can be successful for some time without doing the steps. I personally know a member of the fellowship who has 18 years of sobriety behind him who just recently decided it was time to do the steps for the first time. I know another member who has over 30 years who claims the only step he has done is Step 1...I personally know for a fact that I couldn't wait that long. ..Please don't let this discourage you from doing the steps. Everybody is different some of us to borrow a phrase from the Fellowship are sicker than others. We all work different programs tailor suited to the individual for what best works for him/her...Whatever your decision best of luck to you my friend..
You might be able to go to AA stay sober if you're not a real alcoholic a condition which is described in the book. .If you're a real alcoholic you might be suffering from an illness which only a spiritual experience can conquer.  Although they're not the only way a  much sure fire way to get that experience is to do the steps.  .The question which arises is how do you tell if your a real alcoholic?  The book describes it well and gives some tests. The easiest way to find that is to get a sponsor.  .I'd consider  your track record for success when I considered mine the choice became clear. .If you're looking for motivation to do the steps AA doesn't provide that. Alcohol does. 
&gt; Does anyone feel like you can be successful in the program without working the steps?..I'm sure lots of people feel that way but they're wrong. AA is not a social club or group therapy. Without taking the steps you don't get the benefits and you're really not doing AA.
You might be able to go to AA stay sober if you're not a real alcoholic a condition which is described in the book. .If you're a real alcoholic you might be suffering from an illness which only a spiritual experience can conquer.  Although they're not the only way a  pretty much sure fire way to get that experience is to do the steps.  .The question which arises is how do you tell if you're a real alcoholic?  The book describes it well and gives some tests. The easiest way to find that information is to get a sponsor.  .I'd consider  your track record for success when I considered mine the choice became clear. .If you're looking for motivation to do the steps AA doesn't provide that. Alcohol does. 
People can do the steps and relapse and never do the steps and stay sober. If the being coerced to doing the steps is stopping you from the benefits the fellowship provides don't do them. I tried several times to do AA in a way that seemed inauthentic to my true self and I couldn't remain sober. Maybe at some point later in your sobriety you will want to do them maybe not. Take what you want from the program and leave the rest behind. The fellowship and principles work for me and everything else I leave behind.
