-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8pj4vs/29_months_about_to_lose_it/

Title says it all. About to lose nearly 90 days. My sponsor just relapsed. Didn't know where else to go. 
----------immediate responses--------

Something similar happen to me when I was early on in sobriety. We are all infallible and all we have is today. The person with the most sobriety is the one who got up the earliest. Go to a meeting and find a different sponsor. This is not a reason to drink it's simply an excuse. 
I don't stay sober alone we stay sober together - that's why I go to meetings and am trying (!) to build a community. Seems to be working so far. Get a new sponsor! Eat ice cream! 
you can help your sponsor. get in touch with him/her. let him/her know that you love them. it will help you stay sober.
That sucks. But these people are correct - get to a meeting today. Talk about it. I bet someone else in the room will be able to relate and maybe will be able to tell you how they dealt with it.
I've never heard of someone breaking the month down into 10ths... I don't even know how you do that...
One of the best things my first sponsor told me was right after he agreed to be my sponsor.  He said  but you'd better find a power greater than yourself cause you might call me and I'll be drunk.   He was referring to the part of the book where it refers to depending on people not our hp.  ..Your doing the right thing reaching out I'd suggest asking your higher power for help however you do that and go to a meeting.  
DM me and I'll give u my number and we can talk if u want
1) go to a meeting asap.2) tell them what you just told us and add that you want a new sponsor...Remember we can do what I can't...3) tell us how it went tomorrow.
Please find a temporary sponsor asap. Step up the number of meetings you go to. Stag close to this hroup. Check in often. Pick up the phone call to chat.
Get yourself to a meeting and share about it.  Say you are close to slipping and a bunch of people will come out of the woodwork to help.  ..As a suggestion my sponsor had me make a list of all the times I said I was only going to have 1 or 2 and I lost control.  The exercise was great first step work and helped solidify the powerlessness.  Give it a shot might help with the cravings but either way you won't be drinking when you are writing...Also feel free to PM me if you want to vent or need someone to talk to.
Pray and tell HP you need help and need the desire to go away 
Why go back to the madness?  Other people do relapse doesn't mean that you need to. 
I had my sponsor die in early sobriety. All sorts of shit can and will continue to occur. It's always dangerous to put someone up on a pedestal they can and will come tumbling down and fail us. A sponsor is human. If you truly want to be sober you will find a way to stay sober you got this far. On the other hand you may just be itching for a reason to go back out. If that's the case ain't nothing is going to stop you. ..               Have you had enough ? Only you can answer that. If you do go back out  don't blame your sponsor that's on you. 
All these therapists telling you what to do.....I'll just share my experience..... I have been exactly where you have been before I felt like if I didn't have a drink I would go insane (talk about insane hey... Lol). I've had Sponsors drink hell I even had a sponsor hit on me (he's gay I'm straight). I always tried to ask for help like they told me to do in treatment. I stopped asking for help it doesn't actually say to ask for help ANYWHERE IN THE BIG BOOK. It does constantly talk about helping others that was it that's the solution..... Clean house trust God and help others... Whenever I was a basket case and wanting to drink I would go help others right from day one. I'd go to the homeless shelter and help out I'd go to meeting early and help set up and stay late and clean up I'd clean up cigarette butts I'd always search for the person with less days sober than me and do whatever I could to help them just saying hi and sitting with them is helping them lots.... The solution to my problems is to stop forcing my self will on them and to trust "God" and go help others..... It made no sense to me at all in the beginning but I did it anyways now nine years later it makes a lot of sense as it has kept me sober and somewhat sane.... Well I'm off to a meeting to go help someone..... Enjoy the day
My first two sponsors drank I didn't drink. Turn to your higher power.
Having a sponsor is not a necessary condition of sobriety. It's a person who's there to lead you through the program...It's not: "Oops no sponsor! I now must drink."
You just have to stay sober today !
Don't screw up your sobriety because some asshole who had no business being a sopnsor in the first place fucked up.  Go to a meeting and have some conversations you probably already know some reliable sponsors and ask them.  It really pisses off when a so called sponsor drinks again.  They were probably drunks the entire time and jeopardized their sponsees who basically have to start over with a new sponsor.  Hearing your experience really pissed me off.
Get to a meeting any meeting.
