-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8pqpmw/i_need_help/

I'm 36.  Female. And I'm an alcoholic... And no one really knows.  And I hate it.  And I want to be better.  And I need help.  I'm in the middle of a divorce where I could lose my kids.  Once upon a time I told myself that I wasn't an alcoholic as long as I didn't drink alone. And then I started drinking alone.  And then I told myself it was ok as long as I didn't get drunk.   And then I started drinking alone.  And then I told myself it was ok as long as I didn't drink when I had my kids.  And then I started getting drunk when I had my kids.  And then I told myself I was ok as long as I was keeping up with my fitness regiment and could sustain work life... And I did that.  May have thrown up in the bathroom but I was ok.  And then I met the super positive man who I thought was going to be my running partner and be so good for me. Uber positive guy huge affirmation majorly supportive.  And then I found out he was a recovering drug addict.  And I turned him into an alcoholic too...  And in turn he turned be back onto drugs \-which I'd been clean from for 20 years.  But it wasn't bad.  I had a 2 day relapse\-  huge ass binge but it reminded me why I don't do drugs.....Anyway.  I feel like I'm 2 people in one body.  One who wants to be clean.  No drugs. no smoking and no drinking.  And I can do it.. for 2 weeks max.  And then I go back to\- ok 1 beer... ok 2 beer until I'm 24 in and sleeping on the bathroom floor.  I used to be a functioning alcoholic... now I'm just a drunk.  And I like the way I look when I'm not on anything.  Healthy!! No fat nose no acne no crazy face discolorment and black eyes.....One person is like you can do this! look at you!  your amazing.  and the other is like.  One more.  Not a big deal.  One more.  And I listen to that shitty person.  And they're gone and the positive person shows up the next day and tries to regroup me.  And I hate myself.  For me.  For my kids.  For everything...And even this guy.  He's been clean for a while now and he loves me.  But drunk negative me steps in and gets all crazy and tells me all these negative things.  I'm starting to think I have multiple personality disorder.... but there's no reason for it.  I've never been abused.  Yes.  I've battled depression and I had a horribly abusive marriage. But I don't think that's it.  Acoholism runs in my family.  My dad was an angry drunk.  I can't go to AA.  I have a very small town.  If my ex finds out I'll lose my kids...I need help.  I need you guys.  And no.  Not a new Redditor.  I know all about the safes and the bananas and the conspiracy theories.  This is just a new account.  I need help.  I want to be clean so bad.  But that little/BIG voice in my head won't let me stop.... HELP
----------immediate responses--------

No one can help you more then yourself everyone in the world can give you great advice but unless you want to take that advice and stick with it then it wont do any good. I bet your a fantastic person but you also have an addictive trait in you so you will always have to tell yourself that drinking etc is not worth it it's just a battle you will have to constantly fight but one day you will look back and you will be able to give great advice to your kids why these things are bad and one day you will be able to look at your grandchildren and know your legacy has continued onto them and feel complete because we are never truly forgotten as long as our legacy lives on...Cling to the people who love you because they are the one who will remember us when we all move on they will be the ones who return to our graves and they will be the ones who pass down how great we were when times were hard. ..Love one another because in this universe all we have is each other on this single blue marble.
If you continue drinking things will get worse guaranteed.  ..You can read the AA book at aa.org.  The description of your drinking perfectly matches chapter 3. ..Everyone has to go to their first meeting right?  When the desperation outweighed the fear I walked in to my first meeting.  Best thing I've done. 
Abandon all your excuses. Are you open to trying a different way of living? If yes then get your butt into an as meeting. It all starts with willingness and a little bit of YOU taking action.
For what it's worth... I attend AA &amp; Al-Anon.  The two in combination (or so it seems to me) are helping me stay sober (2 years 1 month &amp; 12 days &amp; 10 hours of today) and stop my emotional binges (I am no longer quite so bad at blowing up phones)...I find that the two complement one another &amp; also keep me too busy to get into trouble...As always this is how it seems to me and take what you like &amp; leave the rest...BTW I don't think I've met anyone at an AA meeting who did NOT qualify for Al-Anon...Also some Al-Anon meetings have cookies!
I too was afraid I would lose my kids if my ex found out I was getting help. What happened was I continued drinking and things got worse and my parenting suffered. Eventually a powerful physical addiction backed me into a corner. I wasn't able to function and knew I would lose my kids if I didn't get help. Rehab saved my life and gave my children a sober mother. ..Don't your children deserve a sober Mom? 
&gt; Anyway. I feel like I'm 2 people in one body. One who wants to be clean. No drugs. no smoking and no drinking. And I can do it...This is the way I feel. Everyday. The following quote helped me put things in perspective. The fellowship of the meetings helped me put things in practice...&gt; . Inside of me there are two dogs. One is mean and evil and the other is good and they fight each other all the time. When asked which one wins I answer the one I feed the most. ..  Sitting Bull 
I'd rather be known as a recovering alcoholic than a drunk.
 *I turned him into an alcoholic too...*              ..You can't turn someone else into an alcoholic.                      ..It sounds like you are ready to be at a jumping off point. My story is similar to yours. When I said "enough I need help" I called someone who (I didn't know this at the time) happened to be three years sober in AA. She said "why don't you go to a meeting right now just look one up right now" and I did. I went to a meeting just down the street which I didn't know existed about 10am on a morning I woke up drunk and had no intention of seeking help. I went to three meetings that day and someone said "you don't ever have to drink again just stick with us" and I did. Now I'm three and a quarter years sober and I didn't even have to do anything it was done for me.
You're saying the guy your with has been clean for a while but he turned you back on to drugs? Which one is it? Is he off of everything now as well? ..You're playing with fire here the stress of the divorce and alcohol aren't gonna mesh well. You don't want being in AA to be discovered but how long are you gonna be able to keep being a drunk hidden? One of the more charming side effects of alcohol is losing control of yourself. I don't see how proving you want help and putting in the work to be better will make you lose your kids but a few more drunken episodes wont. ..You can do this don't fool yourself into attempting to manage this bullshit anymore you don't want to start going to meetings because it's all you have left. 
