-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8pqsmk/need_help_hate_myself/

I'm 36.  Female. And I'm an alcoholic... And no one really knows.  And I hate it.  And I want to be better.  And I need help.  I'm in the middle of a divorce where I could lose my kids.  Once upon a time I told myself that I wasn't an alcoholic as long as I didn't drink alone. And then I started drinking alone.  And then I told myself it was ok as long as I didn't get drunk.   And then I started drinking alone.  And then I told myself it was ok as long as I didn't drink when I had my kids.  And then I started getting drunk when I had my kids.  And then I told myself I was ok as long as I was keeping up with my fitness regiment and could sustain work life... And I did that.  May have thrown up in the bathroom but I was ok.  And then I met the super positive man who I thought was going to be my running partner and be so good for me. Uber positive guy huge affirmation majorly supportive.  And then I found out he was a recovering drug addict.  And I turned him into an alcoholic too...  And in turn he turned be back onto drugs \-which I'd been clean from for 20 years.  But it wasn't bad.  I had a 2 day relapse\-  huge ass binge but it reminded me why I don't do drugs.....Anyway.  I feel like I'm 2 people in one body.  One who wants to be clean.  No drugs. no smoking and no drinking.  And I can do it.. for 2 weeks max.  And then I go back to\- ok 1 beer... ok 2 beer until I'm 24 in and sleeping on the bathroom floor.  I used to be a functioning alcoholic... now I'm just a drunk.  And I like the way I look when I'm not on anything.  Healthy!! No fat nose no acne no crazy face discolorment and black eyes.....One person is like you can do this! look at you!  your amazing.  and the other is like.  One more.  Not a big deal.  One more.  And I listen to that shitty person.  And they're gone and the positive person shows up the next day and tries to regroup me.  And I hate myself.  For me.  For my kids.  For everything.  And I cry  And I want to off everything.  And beat myself up.  And I can't fucking stop!!..And even this guy.  He's been clean for a while now and he loves me.  But drunk negative me steps in and gets all crazy and tells me all these negative things.  He says I'm beautiful\- right.  He says I'm perfect\- right.  He says I'm smart\- yeah ok  I'm starting to think I have multiple personality disorder.... but there's no reason for it.  I've never been abused.  Yes.  I've battled depression and I had a horribly abusive marriage. But I don't think that's it.  Acoholism runs in my family.  My dad was an angry drunk.  I can't go to AA.  I have a very small town.  If my ex finds out I'll lose my kids...I need help.  I need you guys.  And no.  Not a new Redditor.  I know all about the safes and the bananas and the conspiracy theories.  This is just a new account.  I need help.  I want to be clean so bad.  But that little/BIG voice in my head won't let me stop.... HELP
----------immediate responses--------

Hey there. Do you happen to have access to professional therapy?
I know how you feel.  White knuckle sobriety is torture. Find an AA meeting you're not alone . Many people go through this . The good news is you don't have to keep living this way. Get to a meeting talk to someone. Even call your local AA hotline  someone you can talk to can make all the difference . 
Sounds like you're learning all about step one and what it really means to be powerless over booze and drugs. It's a tough lesson some never learn it and die like my two best friends. Alcoholism /addiction is a progressive illness always getting worse never better. The allergy of the body is what ensure I can't control or regulate my drinking once I pick up one drink and the obsession of the mind ensures I always pick up tht first drink. I did that Dr jekyl and Mr Hyde (2 personalities) shit for years and years. I was in and out of AA and treatment centers and pushed everyone and everything away alcohol is the great remover!... It want until I realize how completely powerless I was how I knew for sure that day would come where I pick up a drink that was when I sought a power greater than me in AA to stay sober.... Works like a fucken charm... Lol... Did the work got and stayed sober for many years now.....im going through an emotional rough patch right no so I'm doubling my efforts and going to meetings everyday for a while it's the only I know that really works..... Good luck
Ps.  Love the name.  I have a HDoo and a Polaris.  What do you ride?
Are you willing to do whatever it takes to get sober?  If yes then attend an aa meeting. Willingness means no excuses why you can't go. At the meeting share with at least 1 person why you're there.
you are at the jumping off point. its my hope that one day you will thank your higher power for this beautiful gift of desperation. it doesnt have to be this way. i suffer from a spiritual malady. aa helped me have a psychic change and its working. most people who would gossip about you going to aa arent worth the worry. you are wanting to better yourself so screw what they think. i hope you go to a meeting and raise your hand and let people know you are hurting. it helps them to help you. its a beautiful thing. hang in there.
Looks like you can't stop. You could if you dove into AA and did all the stuff but you can't do that either. Your doc could give you some heavy head meds that will allow you to bear reality without a drink but there are costs for going that route...Maybe you can do AA down the road after the divorce is settled if it's just the divorce that's preventing you from doing that. During the time you've been alive AA has allowed me to do life sober and it's what I can recommend. When you can.
Hi OP. I'm a stranger from California and I would never be able to share your secret with anyone you know. I'm willing to talk to you on the phone if you are willing to talk. I'm also a mother an addict an alcoholic and a general mess. However I have surrendered to the fact that I cannot do it alone and I've given my all to recovery. I'm 5 days short of 6 months sober and I'd love to talk with you. .DM me if you're interested and I'll give you my phone number. 
*I turned him into an alcoholic too...  And in turn he turned be back onto drugs* ..You can't turn someone into an alcoholic. That's not your fault that's on him...The good news is you don't ever have to drink again. Somebody told me that on my first day and it has been true.
