-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8q43hi/how_much_time_should_i_say_i_have/

So I got sober in mid February but then I relapsed in mid April due to a stressful event in my life but just for one night and I got immediately back on track (thank god). So now I've technically got 56 days but that one night definitely didn't set my recovery as a whole back very far so would I use my February date as my sobriety date or my April date? I hope this makes sense. Thank you!! 
----------immediate responses--------

a sponsor is a good person to ask about this...pro tip: your sponsor is going to tell you the relapse counts. ..it's a part of your story that will be useful for others facing the same issue. it's not a race or competition. and all of us only have one day. i kinda wish the chip system wasn't part of the program. counting the days seems counterintuitive to what the 12 steps are about. but i can see why they are useful. you're a few months in and if you gloss over a relapse it won't matter that much. and just a tiny slip at three years won't matter. and a tiny slip at 12 years won't matter. and then tiny slips won't matter at all. who knows what path that may open up.
I know my sobriety date is the last time I drank...But my sponsor says we are all just sober for today so that's why we should maintain our spiritual condition on a daily basis.
My sobriety date is the first date I went without a drink. A sponsor is a good person to talk to about this but that relapse is part of your story. Your story is important for your recovery and to share with others. It highlights that it's not easy but we can and do come back. It's important. You can choose whatever date you want - it's not policed here but glossing over your short relapse will discount the fact that you had the strength to stop and come back and I think that carries a ton of weight. Many go back out and never return. You are strong enough too. View it as a strength instead of a demerit. 
Today's the day you and I don't drink. Nothing about that is impacted in the least bit if you have 56 days or 116 days or by however many days I have. When you near your year without a drink (which imo is a kind of big deal) I believe you'll want to honor that event with the truth.
