-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8qbyz9/sponsor_question/

I started the program about 65 days ago after relapsing after 6 months of sobriety. I dove into the program and surrendered any worries I had needing something to click and stay sober. I got a sponsor and started working the steps attended the meeting weekly and meeting with her weekly as well to do our step work. I had a relapse and I told her before I told my husband because I was scared. She urged me to be honest so I did also told her how much I was drinking and she advised me to go to detox. She picked me up (this is all very foggy) brought me to a hospital where I was transported to a detox facility and put on the states mandatory 48 hr hold. It was scary as hell but I felt I needed to do what I did. Once I got out I text her thanking her for helping etc etc. I haven't heard anything back in a week. I think she is avoiding me or doesn't want to work with me anymore. My question is are there any sponsors that quit working with the sponsees if they relapse? Is that the rules? I'm totally new to this AA thing and feeling confused. I'm now feeling uncomfortable to return to the meeting because of this. Any advice would be great thanks!
----------immediate responses--------

There aren't rules. We're here to help. A sponsor's job is to simply show you how to work the steps and maybe you'll make a friend along the way. Try reaching out again. If she doesn't respond just get a new sponsor. ..Working the steps is up to you though. Keep at it. 
Maybe she feels you aren't ready. Don't waste your time with her. Sponsors will play stupid games. I'm not a fan of sponsorship as many of them just want to be in control of someone else. Not actually help. Do yourself a favor and find a sponsor you can trust and take their suggestions. If they don't want to sponsor you don't waste your time. This is a selfish program that you should be concerned with your sobriety and your well being. 
Some sponsors will stop working with someone after a relapse but some won't. She should probably explain to you what's going on... but regardless of whether she does or not I wouldn't get hung up on it. Get out to some meetings and find someone new to start helping you ASAP. You won't get better until you start getting through the steps. 
Go to meetings. Listen to people who appear to have the experience strength and hope that you want. Hopefully at meetings they have people raise their hands if they want to be temporary sponsors. Work the steps. Work on recovery! If you do see your previous sponsor thank them for helping you in a difficult moment. It's important to look after your sobriety and work the steps. It's also important to show gratitude and not hang on to any possible resentments. 
Maybe she didn't get your text? Maybe her phone is broken?... Maybe she doesn't want to work with you anymore I've been fired by sponsors before. Call her and find out what's up. The worst thing you can do is let your head think up a bunch of bullshit... Lol I'm speaking from experience... :) 
Have you called her and left a message? My sponsor doesn't text me back he only responds to me if I leave a clear message describing why I'm calling and want him to get back to me.
The only time I stopped working with a sponsee is when I felt like she was threatening my own sobriety.  It felt like she didn't want help despite giving lip service to all we were discussing.  This created a LOT of stress for me because I couldn't figure out why she was still around if she didn't really think we (AA) could help.  I didn't "fire" her until after she had relapsed several times and even then I sat her down and explained why I was doing what I was doing - that it wasn't "her" but I needed to protect my own sobriety above all else. 
