-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8qkdmb/clients_in_meetings/

I work in a field where I come in contact with a lot of drug addicts and alcoholics. Recently a client  I work close with (who is coming back from a relapse) has been going to meetings at my home group. We haven't run into each other yet and he knows i'm in AA (he recoginzed me at my job from the rooms). My employer also knows I'm in the rooms...I feel like I should give up my home group and go elsewhere for meetings. My job isn't requiring me to do this I just don't feel comfortable sharing with clients around. I know I'm not the first person in the rooms to experience this and I am wondering how other direct service providers handle running into clients in the rooms. 
----------immediate responses--------

I've sat in a meeting with a person who had crashed their (drunk) car into another person who was also at the meeting alongside the judge who sentenced the drunk driver...Personally I rather enjoy the fact that in a meeting I can be my true self around those I know from "outside." I feel like I have nothing to hide and can share myself. We are all there for the same thing!
I can absolutely relate. I have recently faced the same issue. I'm generally not one who shares and it is a former client so I am still there. If I were to decide to share - I personally would not do so in the meetings where I see former clients. If it were a current client I would leave the meeting immediately. I think you need to do what makes you the most comfortable while also considering how the client might feel. You have to consider the ethics of the situation and the inherent power differential.
Here's the thing when you share at meetings you should be talking about the message that AA has the answer to alcoholism through the 12 steps. Of course there's going to be some personal stuff in there but if the main point of your message is that the 12 steps are the answer to alcoholism I'm not sure why you would want to keep people from hearing that. ..But another thing to consider is that newcomers come and go all the time. Switch groups and eventually you will have the same problem there...Have you prayed and meditated about this? If your employer is aware and there isn't an issue then it sounds like this is fear based. 
I think it very much depends on your field and what kind of clients you are talking about...A number of councillors and assistant at the treatment centre I went to are also members of this and other 12-step programs.  For me seeing them there actually gave me some comfort to have a friendly face when I was first getting out to meetings - it was also reassuring to know that the people running the program and doling out the advice actually knew what they were talking about because they had lived it themselves...I can't say how it is for them but I am good friends with two of them still (and one is a member of my homegroup) ... I have to imagine it's nice for them to see that the efforts they put in at work/volunteering help people to have lasting sobriety and a better life.
"We share in a GENERAL WAY what it we were like what happened and what we are like now".... Stick to that and you'll be fine.. Crazy how all the answers are in the big book... Lol... 
The funny thing is that we are usually the last person on the block to know we are real alcoholics.  Our wives/lovers know.  Many of the people we do business with know.  Most neighbors know or are suspicious.   I served for years as a high ranking public official.   At first in AA I really sweated getting Spotted.   There was a semi secret  professional group  in town with a closed meeting.  Some Docs judges and others hid out there.   I decided  screw it  and kept with my home group open meeting.   Of and on I would speak at other meetings when asked.  Two of my best AA friends were priests who were bold and out to help others.   My take on me was  plenty of people in this fairly small city know about or suspect my drinking . One or two public Christmas parties would telegraph that.   And over the years many coming into AA who recognized me thanked me for being there.   To me being there is part of 12 Step work. 
