-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8qtcie/struggling_today/

So me and my girlfriend are both in recovery and for the past few months things have steadily declined between us. She has more time than me by about a year. And since we got together both of our programs have slipped. Now she is trying to put her program back first in her life and I feel like she never has time for me any more... just don't know what to do or how to  feel  kinda just venting. 
----------immediate responses--------

They say it's a selfish program and not to get or stay sober for someone else. Doing things for yourself focus on improving your own quality of life. Relationships and couples change over time especially in sobriety. Keep an eye on expectations and resentments you may have toward your girlfriend. 
Sounds like she's doing the right thing putting her program of recovery first. You should follow suit.
There's some good info in  to wives   the family afterward   and step 12 of the 12x12. 
Whoever says AA's twelve step program of recovery is a selfish program has it completely round the wrong way...It's a self\-less program. I had to stop thinking about myself \- my wants and needs  and start thinking about others. I used to think Lurve was a feeling you got when you fancied someone. Actually love is a discipline \- it's something you practice not something you get or even deserve. Love is not love unless it is unconditional...I love my wife. This means I treat her with kindness tolerance patience respect. I don't expect anything in return. On a good day she shows her love towards me in the same way but I don't expect it and my sobriety certainly doesn't depend on it. ..When I was drinking my wife threw me out. This was probably the hardest thing she'd ever did but also the most loving. It's called tough love not because it was tough on me but because it was tough on her but she had to do it and it was the best thing she ever did. As a result I spiraled out of control and hit rock bottom. ..Someone in AA suggested I read this book [The Greatest Thing In The World](https://www.amazon.com/Greatest-Thing-World-Experience-Enduring/dp/080072013X) \- it was the best two dollars I ever spent. When I was seven years sober she asked me to move back in. It took me all that time to learn what love actually was and to actually show her by practicing it. 
Call your sponsor start working for yourself. Give this to your higher power. You can not control anyone else. You can't control what is going to happen. Give it to your higher power so that you can start moving forward.
