-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8qy0ph/hi_im_sponge_and_im_an_addict_and_alcoholic/

Hi I'm 5 months sober. I gave up drugs years ago but have been craving since I quit drinking. I haven't started to work steps mostly due to my own inability to be open and honest.  I go to one meeting week every Wednsday and the topics are always exactly what I need to hear. I'm on here now as a segue to better be honest with my struggles. I'm married with kids 31 years old and am trying to figure out how to live with out looking at the moments that lead me to the struggle I face today. The whole finding a sponsor thing amd going to more meetings is daunting for me my wife feels disconnected we've been married for 4 years now. Most of which i was drinking every night. She wants to connect emotionally but i dont know how the hell to do it sober...I see that this has turned into an unorganized rant.  I guess if anyone has any suggestions on balancing meetings amd family lmk.
----------immediate responses--------

Finding a sponsor was really great for my emotional sobriety. Working the steps made me more aware of my actions my behaviors and the effects on others (drunk and sober). .I also got sober while married and being able to clean house emotionally helped me connect with my spouse. .Sponsorship really deals with us as people when it's done right. The resentments we carry how we act towards others and view the world. Only the first step deals directly with our drug of choice. The rest is about how we will carry ourselves in sobriety as people. 
Howdy! And glad you shared honest thoughts and feelings. Be patient. Stick to the program of aa. Find someone you can confide in. 
Lots of people have plausible sounding reasons for not doing the steps; I had mine. In hindsight my reasons were really excuses for not doing the steps-I was afraid to. I did aa like that for four years and never got 30 days.   Finally I asked someone to be my sponsor and the rest is history-I've been clean and sober ever since.  ..In hindsight I was like someone with cancer who went to the doctors office and hung over to in the lobby but didn't actually see the doctor.  Recovery starts when treatment is started. The steps are the treatment. 
There's a reason for all these annoying AA slogans they're all true. And none is truer than  One day at a time.  This is a daily disease and a daily recovery. You drank every day you have to work on your sobriety every day. Writing that post shows that you're making steps towards getting honest with yourself and others. Here's what's important to know: every single one of us was terrified to open up. I only did so because my disease was causing me so much pain. Fine a sponsor. Someone who really has an approach to life and recovery that you want. Start working the steps. You're ready. 
*mostly due to my own inability to be open and honest* ..Find a sponsor. Talk about it. You'll be working on this far before long...*trying to figure out how to live with out looking at the moments that lead me to the struggle I face today* ..Why would you WANT to do that? We have found that we don't have to ignore the past or shut the door on it we have been given a new freedom. Get off the bench and join us...*i don't know how the hell to do it sober* ..Work the steps. At five months sober with regular stepwork my emotions were turning back on again.
More meetings = more recovery...I drank every day so it makes sense to hit a meeting every day.
Have you read the big book?
