-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8r7o3v/big_book_sponsor_part_of_mlm_scheme_real_sponsor/

I have two sponsors. One is a sponsor in name only (I am probably just people pleasing by letting her remain my sponsor it's a long story I'm her first sponsee ever to stay sober more than a year and will soon complete the steps) who I speak with in person quite often and have come to see as more of a pet than a sponsor and one for Big Book study. Sponsor 1 does not use the big book whatsoever and has never read it. I felt like something was fundamentally missing from my program and brought it up to sponsor 1 a while ago; she asked me if I felt like drinking or using and I said no so she said to forget about it and continue with the steps the way she was taught...Sponsor 2 was my very first sponsor several years ago when I was struggling and failing to get and stay sober. She has recently begun bringing me through the Big Book as her sponsor brought her. I was having a really great time and learning a lot until a few weeks ago when I told her of some troubles at work not liking my job etc and she tried to get me involved in one of those crazy MLM pyramid schemes selling whatever the hell she's selling on her social media site. I unfollowed her a while ago because I couldn't deal with it. I told her I would not be taking her up on her offer and she has not contacted or responded to me since. ..What do? I guess she dropped me and I have someone who is willing to sponsor me if I have a chat with sponsor 1 about how I am feeling but I'm really torn. Sponsor 1 will be heartbroken if I stop doing work with her. I'm thinking of just sticking it out until I finish with 12 and then move on from there since I'm not really at risk of doing anything stupid but I do not feel like my program is up to par anymore. I'm completely stagnant and have been growing resentments like rotten tomatoes in my life. I think I'm just looking for an outside perspective on what the reasonable thing to do in this situation is. I would call my sponsor about it but......
----------immediate responses--------

I would take this new potential sponsor up on their offer and have the difficult conversation with sponsor 1. It seems to be an ego thing on their part to be able to tout your sobriety as part of their success in the program. .I always ask women I'm about to sponsor if they've had a sponsor before what happened and if they've disclosed to them they're seeking new sponsorship. Clean boundaries is a good foundation for this type of relationship. 
Do yourself a favor and go with the new sponsor. Your sobriety is in the line. 
Sponsor is someone who carries the message to you or helps you with the steps... The "sponsor" you have who has never read the big book is a wannabe therapist and most likely not even an alcoholic. People like that kill real alcoholics who come to AA looking for a solution... Do what's best for you
A sponsor's responsibility is to take you through the 12 steps as outlined in the Big Book which is the textbook of the program. If I had a calculus teacher who had never read a calculus textbook trying to help me find the solution to a calculus equation then I bet they would be a pretty crappy teacher...Once I had a sponsor who taught me a great lesson that as an alcoholic I don't and never have "people pleased". I "me please" and if you get something out of that too then that's fantastic but at the end of the day "people pleasing" is always self centered fear for me and that fear is being afraid of what people think of me.
Your sponsor is not your God. They are there to carry the message to you or help you with the steps. They are not there to get you sober or make you happy. That's between you &amp; your HP...You have the resources to understand what's required of YOU to stay sober and become happy joyous &amp; free. Ask yourself why you're not doing what's required and quit putting any portion of that responsibility on your sponsor or anyone else. Consider asking your HP for guidance...Start reading pg86 from the Big Book both first thing in the morning &amp; last thing at night. ..Start reading through the Big Book &amp; 12x12 and working the steps. I guide my sponsees through the book and steps in 2 months. If you're a real alcoholic and you haven't had a spiritual experience brought about by the 12-steps it's just a matter of time before you're back out drinking like it seems you've been before. ..Please excuse my directness if you can. I'm passionate about the program as written in the book because I've seen it work time and time again. 
Good lord this isn't a popularity contest. It's your sobriety take responsibility for it. The only person on this planet responsible for your sobriety is you. You can't give anyone credit or blame. It's between you and whom ever is a power greater than yourself. Might want to try a couple alanon meetings they straighten my ass right out. I'll think good thoughts for you. 
Principles before personality.
