-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8rnc9c/my_roommate_just_cooked_dinner_and_let_me_know/

Honestly right now I'm freaking the fuck out. I just told my sponsor and I'm going to my usual meeting tonight but holy shit. My roommate knows I'm sober now he hasn't pushed alcohol on me at all but I'm freaking the fuck out about it. My sponsor told me not to let it get in my head that I just relapsed so fuck it for real and he calmed me down a bit but I'm still early on in my sobriety this time and I Know that shit doesn't cook out 100%...I'm honestly really fucking pissed as well that he really just thought nothing of it and I'm even more pissed that I didn't notice until after he told me. I didn't even think about cooking with alcohol because I really never did it. But fuck man.
----------immediate responses--------

Dawg relax I know people with more than 10 years of sobriety who eat things cooked in beer or wine. Your fine. Just move on and don't let it affect you. If you haven't started working the steps yet please start ASAP. You won't regret it
You're ok.  The risk you take is that the alcohol that didn't cook out will trigger the phenomena of craving that would have happened right not (it's essentially instant).  ..I had a similar occurrence when I ate a Christmas goodie at work it had alcohol in it.  I knew it right away spit it out and called my sponsor.  I was ok too.  I did learn a good lesson that day...At restaurants that might be questionable I ask if what I'm ordering has alcohol in it and that I'm allergic to alcohol; and leave it at that.  It works like a charm.
Lol you wanna go chug some pasta sauce in the woods and get wild?
i put down the drink 8 yrs ago. I still cook with wine. Just food for thought. No pun intended. I also tkae nyquil when I am sick and drink kombucha. I dont worry about it the sobriety and peace comes witht in me. 
It's all about the intent. I've found out after the fact on a couple of occasions and my sponsor was excellent about it. If I had known before then of course I wouldn't have had it (I think one time it was a sort of fondue). I eat food and my intent is to treat myself with y'know.... food. Totally agreeable. I eat food several times per day. ..The interesting one for me is non-alcoholic beer. There is no way I could drink this and be true to my recovery. My intent would be to replicate / romanticise / fool myself that this is beer. These are my thoughts only (no judging others!)..When I drank alcohol my intent was to obliterate myself and shut off my brain. ..I don't think this was your intent when eating pasta. 
Sooner or later most all of us alcoholics get exposed to alcohol whether it's trace amounts in food cooked with beer or wine or a slightly fermented pro-biotic drink or yogurt... You can't hide from it completely...My approach is to monitor intent. What is or was my goal when eating / drinking this and how did I feel about it? Did it come from a place of chasing a high? If so red alert! Iceberg straight ahead! Seek help! If not... Then no worries...Vinegars are alcoholic. Soy sauce is alcoholic. There is trace alcohol in tons of things - - - I think even orange juice. I consume all those things. For me though I get all squicky about consuming items that actually have "wine" or "alcohol" listed on ingredient labels. For this reason I don't go for kombucha or Grey Poupon and the like...I think intent is the real key to health here. 
I eat wine sauces and beer-battered stuff from time to time. It's a personal choice and I don't blame anyone for not feeling comfortable with it. It's not a breaking sobriety issue it's that people are concerned it will set off their craving. That doesn't happen for me so that's why I don't worry about it. I do avoid things where the alcohol won't be cooked out but I once consumed such a dish. I didn't become intoxicated obviously and I told my sponsor. All was well. Good luck with your sobriety!
It's only a relapse if you choose to pick up..... If you accidentally take a sip of the wrong drink or eat food with booze on it it is not a relapse.... It can fuck with your head though and cause a case of the "fuck its" and get loaded..... I ate tiramisu once and I felt a buzz from it was an honest mistake.... In 9 yrs of sobriety its happened a couple times... Its good it scares you.... I remember once I had a sip by accident and ran  to the bathroom (I was at work) and got on my knees and prayed I was so scared........ You're all good just stop listening to yourself... Lol... Meeting big book pray call other AA'rs........ Always works
Make dinner for your roommate and afterwards mention that you used a little arsenic to acheive just the right taste. Probably not enough to hurt him and he certainly shouldn't get silly or offended over it. ..Maybe he'll get the hint.
I feel where you are coming from. My wife cooked with wine not too long ago and didnt mention it until I told her I could taste it. A lot went threw my mind in a bad way. Till this day it bothers me but what can I do? I just try to avoid such a situation again.
Same experience. I accidentally took a sip out of coke bottle that had liqueur in it. I immediately stopped and called my sponsor. It bothered me but I got over it and you will too if you don't pick up about it.
It doesn't take much heat to evaporate the ethanol leaving only the taste.  Don't get worked up over cooking practices.  Start to bear in on your character defects.   Might surprise you..
