-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8roq1e/aa_and_aspergersi_have_questions/

Hi. .. .1.) I have mild aspergers. Social interaction is confusing and difficult for me (and others like me) and I get scared in new situations and environments until I learn how to navigate them. ..2) I'm new to sobriety (36 days CS) and found a sponsor this Wednesday. We will start working the steps next Wednesday. I haven't told her that I'm on the spectrum and I'm just realizing that I may need to let her know this I don't know if she knows anything about ASD...Every time I've tried sobriety in the past the I was unsuccessful because meetings scared the shit out of me because the last thing I ever want to do was introduce myself to a room of strangers and I didn't know what to expect. ..This time I did my first 32 days by talking to my doctor about it a lot and taking Antabuse to help at the start. I worked with myself on just being honest about being an alcoholic going to meetings when I could and introducing myself each time I went learning the script and experimenting with sharing a little each time I went...I have been able to get through the meeting parts of A.A. as I've learned the script and am much better on that endeven though some of my sharing may have been awkward but I count that as a miracle! :)..I have no friendships outside of my family kids and partner. By nature as a person with I'm a pretty isolated person and mostly enjoy being alone to focus on the things I'm into and as an alcoholic I'm sometimes I'm into getting drunk. :)  I can't really do much to change being an aspie but I truly believe that I can continue to stay sober at A.A. I just need a primer on the social interaction/etiquette part. ...Now that I've got a sponsor and am supposed to work the steps and be part of a fellowship I'm freaking out a lot...If anyone has any questions about Asperger's or autism in general please feel free to ask! :)..Before I list my questions I want to express that I am not being negative I just don't understand...These are my main questions/areas I'm having trouble understanding/there doesn't seem to be a script:. .* My sponsor wants me to call her every day. I understand that we will work on the steps together on Wednesday but when I call her for the next 4 mornings does she also want to make small talk or does she just want to make sure I didn't drink and move on with her day? ..* When people text me or call me are they texting me because they want to talk to me and get to know me or just make sure I'm not drinking? ..As a person with Asperger's (and maybe for everyone else too?) trying to navigate new social situations can be very emotionally draining until I learn them and normally I will give myself small breaks with new things like this but AA doesn't afford that and I'm completely fixated on this right now and need to put my mind at ease...I talked to my partner about it today and mentioned that I want to stop going. He said if I want to stop going that's up to me and he'll support me in that decision but that he won't support me if I start drinking again and asked if I thought I will relapse again without AA and of course right now the answer is yes. ..vent: I'm exhausted from talking to strangers scared of actually opening up to my new sponsor and letting her know me and I really just want to go back into my hole. .Are there any other aspies trying to do AA? I need to talk to someone who understands how hard it is to work this program when just picking up the phone is scary.
----------immediate responses--------

