-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8rw4k9/just_ruined_90_days/

I got out of rehab a week ago and I've already relapsed. Now I feel like shit I feel so guilty and I don't want to tell anyone what I did. Ughhh what do I do? 
----------immediate responses--------

Find a strong AA meeting where you can find a sponsor who will help you get through the 12 steps. If you want to talk about it more in depth message me and I'll send you my number
Do the next right thing find a meeting and go No one there will judge you.
Get to a meeting. Be honest. It's ok. You can just get back to it.
The relapse isn't as important as what you do now. It's easy to get down on yourself about it I would encourage you to keep moving forward. No one is perfect in this regard otherwise we wouldn't be alcoholics. Just make sure that you are doing the things you need to do to give yourself a good chance at getting sobriety!
Go to a meeting.
Don't let the guilt steal your accomplishments. 90 days is a long time!  One relapse does not undo all of that hard work. .I promise you that you can get right back on that horse without much consequence so long as you get back now. Hit a meeting right away and then hit another one and another one. Find a sponsor and a few friends stick around after the meeting and talk to someone. 
Im not sure I am the best to give advice. But I have always been told there is a slip and a relapse. You can recover from a slip if you really want to.
You learned that rehab will keep you sober a week in the real world which is a good thing to know. ..If you want better results than you realized with rehab then begin doing all the AA stuff. They may have mentioned that was a good idea to pursue while you were in rehab but I never heard it either. My idea every time was that I'd paid good money to get fixed and therefore didn't need to do what worked well for alcoholics..
As others have said get to a meeting - they won't judge and will understand. Get as many phone numbers as you can from the other people there. They don't give you their phone numbers to be polite - they want you to phone them whenever you need to. They really were a lifeline for me in the early days (and now!) This relapse is part of your journey so don't beat yourself up - just stay in today and take this one day at a time.
You pick up your foot and take one step. Check to see if you have any problem triggers on you or around you. If not take another step. If you do distract yourself from them and take the next step. ..Any forward movement is a win. If you fall look at what happened leading up to the fall and learn to recognize the danger signs. Every time you are around a danger sign look at what happened leading up to the danger sign and see if there's an earlier signal that you need to get your guard up or excuse yourself...Think about what you learned in rehab and how you can apply those lessons in the real world. What worked? Are you still doing those things? ..What worked in rehab but didn't work at home? Write all that shit down for later. ..Go to a meeting and talk to people. Find a mentor. Ask for help looking for triggers in your home and your life. Actively look for ways to remove or disarm those triggers. If you can't figure it out ask at meetings someone will have been where you are at some point. If any of these seem too big break it down to smaller steps. ..Keep taking one step at a time and pretty soon you'll be back at two days a week a month and so on. If you find yourself in situations where you might fall call someone put distance between you and the situation. If you find a drink in your hand (or whatever your problem thing is) put it down and walk away one step at a time. 
Go to a meeting every day for a while. Try quitting efforts to garner sympathy (which just waste time and mind bandwidth -- you know what to do) and instead make a plan to try to get better in any way you can.  If AA seems not right then go to SMART meetings or Refuge Recovery.  ..Own your relapse and your desire to hide after that relapse.  Move on and get serious.  Do they have aftercare at the rehab?  Call your counselor and ask what to do next...You can do this if you own it.
The natural state for an alcoholic is DRUNK.  Nothing wrong with what you did - it is rather expected.  Unless you couple in patient with AA (the only program that has outlived it's founders) you haven't much of a chance.  The 90 days dried out your brain so you messed that up but hey - go back into rehab OR do it like many of us did - 90 in 90.  And find a sponsor you can be comfortable with.  One day at a time - or one hour at a time - is what is important now.
I felt super bad about ruining 30 days but now I'm back in meetings doing the 90 in 90 and working with my sponsor and fellows. There are wonderful people who have a longer sobriety and some have broken it and feel the same feelings.  It seems no matter how long we are sober it hurts to break that.  The important thing for me and the people I've heard is to get back into meetings.
