-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8rwxgx/hey_guys_im_im_an_alcoholic/

I'm feeling incredibly lonely. Was angry today. I'm even Hungry and tired. I know that's a part of my problem. The HALT thing but I'm still incredibly lonely and realizing I have no real friends today. I have friends but no true connections like I used to feel. It was like this when I used having issues with connections but even then I had a couple people I felt real things for. Now I'm questioning if the one person I have those feelings for again can even be real do I even know them well enough. Do I just trick myself into having feelings of affection. Are they false out of my need to have someone. Also My  best friend  as she calls me was relapsed half the time we got to know eachother had hid it. Which I accept but I realized I don't really know her. Thoughts just rolling around my brain that lead me to I am really alone. I have an amazing sponser we have a friendship. But it's not I'm not okay with myself. I've gotten so much better but I still have my guard up tremendously with everyone and want everyone to think I'm okay and I have it. I can't come to people with my real problems I can't even speak them really. I'm 6 months in about to be on step 12 wondering if I'm a fraud who didn't really give all I should've. I've given so much but I'm still a lonely fear driven girl who feels like a stranger. I have love for others. They have love for me. They say really nice things that I feel undeserving of yet I have some semblance of self esteem today and I know I am a good person. I had a spiritual awakening before and somewhere I've fallen off track and I have been beating myself up for not taking action not showing gratitude not being social and reaching out. I don't know how to reach out when my walls are built so high. I don't really have anyone to speak to on my level. The person I wish to discuss this with probably doesn't even care. They probably just like that I admire them and give them attention. Because at the end of it all I still feel very unlovable and tonight I'm feeling like a fraud. I'm incredibly lonely. Thanks if you read this thank you for your time. I know I can come back if I take the right actions. There is nothing a drink can make better but today I've been thinking about it. For the first time in a couple months. I didn't open up even when prodded earlier it's like there's a part of my brain that goes blank around others and when confronted. I can't think. 
----------immediate responses--------

Glad you didn't drink.  Loneliness sucks.. but for me it's welcomed as time for me to take a deep breath and think about what  I  want.  Do something good for yourself. Could be anything!  Take a walk if you want go see a movie fo to a bookstore... just find something YOU want to do that would benefit you and let yourself know that you are loved... by YOU.  That's the only person on this earth who needs to love you. 
Hang in there!! We support you 
I think that you might be putting too much value and emphasis on what other people think. We all want great friendships and a happy life for ourselves and others the hard part of that is having to work towards it and accepting whatever comes of it without letting our expectations control how we perceive things. I still dwell on thoughts of my life and how I think I should be or what I think I should have but now that I have been in A.A. and gained some understanding I know that my self-will pride and ego can sneak in and start trying to control how I act. I know how hard it can be to reach out and sometimes we don't. But don't let that be the reason that you continue feeling the way you feel. All you have to do is speak what is on your mind whether it be at a meeting with your friend or your sponsor. You might be surprised at what you hear and if not at least you will have learned something! Take care!
You need get you a meeting man or continue stay on here.
