-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8ry5xx/i_was_contemplating_gods_will_and_hardships_the/

I'm a baby in my sobriety about a month. Just now getting to where I'm not obsessed with the idea of alcohol and I can actually relax again without concern of it triggering me (i only drank by myself at the end of the day)...So i was thinking about why God would grant me the hardships of becoming an alcoholic along with bipolar disorder with psychosis all coming to a point and hitting bottom within about 2 years of each other. I went to my sponsor after thinking about the alcohol part and he said "we all survived the same shipwreck and come together to help each other back to shore". I meditated on that a bit. What happens after a shipwreck? You are lost at sea in a inflatable raft just trying to survive. You can be there for a long time. When you finally get back to shore you are so grateful to be there and so happy about the solid ground under your feet that you KISS the ground you are standing on. You kiss it. That's how happy you are to be back on solid ground when you find it. ..We are people that are happy just to be walking on solid ground. One of the most common things I hear in meetings is "I'm just happy to be here. Happy to be sober today." That's being happy just about the ground underneath your feet. Gratitude is the other side of the same coin as hardship. There wouldn't be joy if it wasn't for pain. You wouldn't appreciate the sunshine if it wasn't for rain. During our struggles it's important to remember that moment when we realized our feet were back on solid ground. That moment we kissed the ground under our feet. I'm just now getting there and if you have been there awhile let me remind you how much different and amazing it feels. If you just started let me tell you the beginning gets better and your feet will be planted back underneath you once again. ..Normal people don't get to appreciate the ground they walk on like we do. We get to wake up every day and thank God that we woke up sober and have a fighting chance to face the day. We get to thank God that we get to go do things like hit a meeting go to work see people or just go for a walk. I got to play golf with my father yesterday if I had been drinking I would have made an excuse to not go. I'm happy to be sober today... and I'm especially happy that i was sober for fathers day. ..Thanks for reading.
----------immediate responses--------

Welcome to your new life. Now you can enjoy it.
That's fantastic thanks for sharing. You've helped me today. 
No doubt man. Needed to hear this right in this moment. Thanks for sharing.
Thanks!
obsession starting to be removed after 1mo is rather rare. i've really only seen it happen for people who work steps quickly and have a spiritual awakening right away. i'm super happy to hear you've found aa and are doing this thing! congratulations! 
Thank you for the reminder. I take the solid and sturdy ground for granted. I think I will spend the day kissing it thanks to this post 
Thank you for sharing this is a lovely reminder
this is a fantastic sharing.  This is why AA needs newcomers we need to be reminded of how lucky we are to have found sobriety.  My sponsor of 11 years has bipolar for which he receives treatment.  Very few are a better example of AA than him.  he is incredibly humble...I myself have had chronic backpain for eight years.  its been hard to accept but my life is really good today.  I am so glad I do not drink.  I have adjusted my life.  I am lucky to have family support.  with my dad's help (who is also sober in AA) I was able to purchase a home and I now have a steady income from that home which I rent out as a vacation rental.  I help my dads business out by doing certain things online.  I also write about renewable energy which provides a hundred a month but I do that more for joy than I do the money. it took a few years but I found a way to be self-supporting and if I could not be self-supporting there would have been other ways to find happiness.  for many years I was not self-supporting...I now live half the year in Thailand.  i love it.  I can walk most places and ride a scooter a few other places safely.  driving a car is just to painful.  I am 6'4 and do not fit well in them.  ..I get to go to a few meetings while I am here but I check in to reddit when its hard to make it to a meeting.  posts like these really help me to stay level headed.
 *an alcoholic along with bipolar disorder with psychosis* ..If this helps you might find that some of this stuff disappears from your life after a few years. Once the alcohol is out of our life other things like diet and sleep start to naturally correct slowly. Then stepwork starts to fix the workings of our mind. We're all different though and I'm not suggesting that every outside problem is a symptom of alcoholism however I have personally seen that the AA lifestyle corrects many things which we consider permanent hurdles in life.
