-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8sjel5/im_so_scared_that_ill_see_my_coworker_at_my_first/

My coworker is very open about being a member of AA and is actually the one who inspired me to try it. She doesnt know me as anything other then the painfully shy girl at work but she's my personal hero. She's a mom which is my dream and has overcome so many of the things that I struggle with. I deeply admire her and want her to like me too...I know she wont judge me for being an alcoholic since she's one too but what if she thinks I'm just in it for the attention or sympathy? What if she sees me and thinks 'psht I know this girl and she is not an alcoholic.' What if she tells people at work? I have so many illogical fears about this and I feel so paralyzed by it. ..So can someone tell me about experiences where you found out an someone you knew was gonna be in AA with you? I just have no idea what to expect.
----------immediate responses--------

Your anonymity is yours and the other party is expected to respect that.  If you're concerned it's fine to tell them you're scared of people finding out...My experience....When I got sober I worked in a high rise office building 30 miles from home.  After a year or so I was at a meeting close to home and saw a familiar face.  It was another guy who worked in the same building.  He had many years (anything more than five seemed like forever). I had no idea what his openness with his co-workers our employer was.  We worked for different companies...What we did was ride in together on the commuter train for a while starting our day with talking about living sober without using the words alcoholism sobriety etc.  Anyone overhearing us wouldn't know it was AA unless they you were in recovery...We had lunch a few times and went to lunch meetings.  We've both moved on to other jobs since then but I was never concerned he would out me if he saw me with strangers...I did make the choice eventually to be open about my recovery with work.  Sometimes I regret it but given my employer's policies it's just easier to be completely open.  Saves time in beating around the bush during investigations...Yes Anthem went to rehab a long time so and no we've never seen him drink. He goes to meeting at lunch and some co-workers have been come to my anniversary celebrations.  Pretty sure he does something at jail on Mondays too..
I obviously don't know her personally but in my experience most people are incredibly supportive open and happy that you are there.  Most people that I go to meetings with follow the anonymity rule pretty well too. And I've never once thought that someone shouldn't be there..alcoholics come in all different shapes and sizes. Yesterday I sat in between a doctor and a Harley guy with tattoos and piercings. It was amazing! . I'm so happy that you want to go! if you feel comfortable enough with your coworker maybe let her know that you're a little nervous about some things..I'm pretty sure she would be open and receptive to it and it may be the start of a great sober friendship. . We can only keep what we have by giving it away. I'm so excited for you!! 
Hey! If you are a real alcoholic then I promise you she will be able to recognize that. Please set aside the fear and do what will better your life. You will not regret it.
Guess who was at my first AA meeting? My dentist! 
Is it really important that she believed your really an alcoholic? No. Don't let this silly fear dictate whether or not you get better. There's a million reasons to not go to meetings focus on the reasons you should go. 
I was fired once for showing up to work with alcohol in my system.  I wasn't ready to quit at that time but later I was ready and quit.  Went to rehab then started going to meetings in my home town.  I had been going to these meetings for months scared to death of who I would see there.  I got over it.   One night someone got there late a new-comer... my former boss that had to let me go.  Thankfully he recognized me and sat by me I knew it was his first meeting.  I'm a pretty private person but I decided to share in that meeting hoping to give him some encouragement that we are all there for the same reason we need help.  We chatted a bit afterwards and it was weird but also very cool.  No one judges or has the right to judge anyone else who walks in that room.  ..If your coworker works the program and sees you there my guess is she will welcome you with open arms.
The first meeting is always terrifying.  Regardless of who is there or who isn't you will find that it gets easier when you start to get a few meetings under your belt.
My first meeting I saw a woman I work with. She hugged me. 
We are all anxious going to our first meeting but I'd be very surprised if your coworker was anything but supportive .Wish you the best .AA is a wonderful way of life
I didn't know beforehand that I'd see someone I knew there but it can be scary walking in at first to this new world even though you'll learn it's an incredibly loving and supportive environment. At first I tried to pretend I didn't know this woman then the second meeting I knew I had to open up to people and while I was feeling painfully shy it was soooooo nice and helpful to have someone that I already knew. I just said  I am feeling very overwhelmed and I'm really shy and I'm not sure what I'm doing here  &amp; it took a lot of effort to eat that out. That night she introduced me to a bunch of people and offered to go with me to other meetings and hearing her love of the program and of her sponsor really helped me when I was feeling skeptical and like  I'll give it a few months and THEN decide if I wanna go to more meetings and get a sponsor and do the steps.  She helped me get into the space where now I love it and I feel welcome and comfortable and look forward to going to meetings whenever I can and I'm not stalling my progress by waiting for months before diving in.
Three plus years on continuous sobriety and I've never been outed 
I've unexpectedly run into people from  outside.  In a couple of cases I've asked them to please maintain my anonymity. Their response was of course and please do the same for me. 
If she seems like a nice and sane person I don't think she'll do any of that stuff. Usually I find that if you create a fear in your head it does not happen a vast majority of the time.
I've been in AA for a while and recently I had a co-worker of mine come into the rooms. I was happy to see him. So I'm sure your co-worker will feel the same way. We respect each other's privacy while at work and it's all good . Im sure it will all work out just fine 
