-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8smzn6/im_ready_to_give_up/

(24 F)I've been sober for a year (I was forced into rehab last June) and I'm still not past any of it. I'm always ready to have a drink. I can't tell anyone the truth. My parents put a breathalyzer in my car after I left rehab just for reinforcement. I would have relapsed by now if it wasn't for that. Every time I think about how angry I am about not being able to drink I start to have a panic attack. I've tried 5 antidepressants I've been taking naltrexone since I left.... my mood swings just never stop. I want to stop being angry at my family for drinking around me but shaming me for my problem. I want to stop freaking out every time I think about wanting a drink. This is the first time I've gone out to eat since I was admitted and I'm crying in my car. I'm meeting someone I became friends with thru IOP and I don't even want to go inside. I wasn't even half way to the restaurant before I started to break down. I don't want to even see anyone enjoying themselves because I'm just that fucking miserable. Anyways I just really needed to vent. 
----------immediate responses--------

**High^Five for 1yr sober /u/scecli9310!**      ..I'm sorry you are struggling. It sounds like a serious problem with acceptance. Understanding alcoholism helped me accept that I had the disease. Reading the book *Under the Influence* by Ketchum and Milam opened my eyes and taught me about alcoholism...May I ask what happens when you drink? 
I admire you making it a year on your own. Alcoholism without the relief of a drink or a program to enjoy sobriety without a drink feels like you've described so well. I wasn't tough enough to stand it more than a few months before drinking again...Keep going this way as long as you can or perhaps consider doing all the AA stuff to start enjoying reality and lose the urge to drink.
Sorry to hear you are going through what a lot of people deal with regarding alcoholism. And congratulations on your year! If you think your feelings are related to mental health I would try to explore more options in that area but if you're sure that how you feel is a result of your situation and the way you feel you've been treated I would definitely get into A.A. and find a sponsor. The A.A steps are designed to deal with everything that results from our drinking regardless of how much or how little we drank. I'm not sure if you are familiar with A.A. at all but it sounds like you could benefit quite a lot from it. For me I gained a better understanding of how alcohol affected other parts of my life and how my ego and entitlement gave me permission to drink. Maybe it's worth looking in to!
If you take the alcohol out of an alcoholic you're left with the ick. Alcohol is just a symptom of my problem I had to get to the root of my problem. I did that by getting a sponsor and working the steps.  
 Don't give up! Hold on just a little while longer. 
Are you going to AA meetings?
If you think you can safely drink then go ahead and drink think about though... If not come join us in AA we all have lots of fun together... Battling alcoholism alone sucks
Think about it. It has already been a year but you're stuck with anger and resentment still. These are triggers that ensure an alcoholic will drink. Do you have an outlet for your anger? Have you thought about finding one? I don't think it's very good of your family to drink around you if it makes you suffer by the way you should mention it to them. You really shouldn't freak out about having thoughts about wanting to drink I'm impressed you've made it a year to be honest. The first step is accepting that you have no control over alcohol and that includes craving it. You haven't internalized this first step at all. 
I didn't like any feelings like that. Luckily working the steps with a sponsor means that I don't have to feel that stuff any more. 
Felt the same way my first year. Anger controlled my life. I was pissed that I couldn't drink and how bad life had gotten...What I did was go to a therapist 3 times a week to work on my anger and get my feelings out in a safe environment. I also got involved in bringing meetings into rehabs and detoxes reminded me of what was waiting for me if I decided to drink again...An old saying we have here... If you want to get sober go to meetings. If you want to stay sober chair meetings...It takes time to get over the anger. How long depends on how much work we put into it.
Thank you to everyone that replied. I will take your suggestions in stride and I am always grateful for the encouragement  
Regarding the breathalyzer the big book says dependence on others are sure to fail if that was a permanent solution multiple dwi offenses would be reduced. All I'm saying is I'm confident in your alcoholic ability to manipulate and get what you want/need. Thankfully you've gotten to this point without drink. By your description it doesn't sound like you've had a spiritual awaking / psychic change as your thinking and behavior is the same which is opposite of what the result of the steps bring..Work them again don't bullshit get to it..Or go get some more fuck it lol you'll quit one way or another 
