-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8suflz/sober_miletone_birthday_ideas/

Tomorrow I'll have 30 days sober and Saturday I turn 40.  The only thing I wanted/asked for was a 40th bday party and my husband tried but almost all of my friends were unavailable that day so he was trying to plan something for the following Saturday.  Which was disappointing I guess because it felt like a waste of a mileatone birthday opportunity on a Saturday.  How often does that happen??..Anyway...so then my dad passed away I was hanging onto sanity by a thread and a misunderstanding led to my mom (they were divorced) cutting me off for about a week because she thought I challenged her rights as beneficiary on his life insurance.  I did not and I was able to prove it but there was still a lot of damage done.  At that point I completely spiraled out of control.  I had my husband cancel the party he was working on because I was devastated all the way around and just wanted to disappear...I drank myself stupid for a couple weeks was diagnosed with an adjustment disorder and put on FMLA from work by my psychiatrist. I completely lost control of my drinking and myself.  I stopped "sobering up" and started withdrawing instead.  I knew I had to stop or I was going to go to sleep one night and not wake up...With encouragement from my cousin (one of my closest friends and an absolute sweetheart with an unfortunate amount experience in her young life being aversely affected by others' substance abuse) I decided I needed to get help.  I was already off work so no excuse there my dad was no longer depending on me and my family needed me to get my life and myself under control much more than they needed me physically available...With almost a month behind me I AM doing better.  But only a couple days ahead of my birthday that old familiar depression and self-pity I feel most of the time when I'm "normal" is taking over.  My dad is gone.  My brother passed away 4 years ago.  My mom sprained her ankle and has chronic back problems so she's not up for much. My daughter is with her dad for the summer.  My cousin has plans with her family and in-laws this weekend.  My best friend and her husband extended their vacation (which I was counting on ending tomorrow) and they won't be here.  My husband wanted to take me kayaking but now it's looking like thunderstorms all day.  I used to go to karaoke a lot and a good friend is running a karaoke show that night (at a bar but not a party scene) and my stepfather and husband said they'll go but neither will sing - which kind of just feels like I'm burdening them.  Just about everyone else I normally see there/ hang out with is unavailable that night...I'm feeling pretty lonely and beat up.  The year has been hell since my dad started declining in december - I am his only living child and my daughter and I qere his only local family so I have been responsible for everything.  I've also lost an uncle and two friends since January and only two people from work have kept up with me since dad died and I went on leave (one retired last Friday while I was still out...I go back Monday).  The group at IOP says I should not go to karaoke because it's at a bar. The alternative is sitting home feeling sorry for myself which I think is a bigger risk for relapse. I don't like going to the movies and can't stand crowds.  I plan to go to a meeting but that only lasts an hour...How do you get through a lonely milestone birthday sober while grieving?  I don't know what to do but I know I can't drink...tl;dr - I'm depressed and lonely and need to get through my 40th birthday on Saturday with no real plans very little company and very few enjoyable sober activity options to pull from...
----------immediate responses--------

Go to the meeting that you said you're planning on then afterwards talk to others there and tell them the situation that it's your birthday you don't have anything to do etc. hopefully you can experience some great fellowshipping that night. 
I felt very lonely too. But aa helped me and it can help you too.
Go to the meeting...Tell folks...Share it out until you wear it out.
