-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8twe6b/early_sobriety_v_mental_illness/

Hey guys. I'm 88 days sober. I've struggled hard my whole life with depression. I had a lot of childhood trauma and found that alcohol quieted the voice in my head that screamed  You're bad . I had completely forgotten about this voiced until Friday. I heard it in my head again. Then again on Sunday. I'm scared that the only way to shut it up is with alcohol. I don't want to go back. So far I've been giving my fear to my higher power and trying to meditate. To be honest that fear is still there. Any suggestions? Thanks!
----------immediate responses--------

it's definitely more than ok to seek outside help from the mental health system 
You're not alone. Many people struggle with mental illness and not just get sober but stay sober for many years. I'd look into therapy or an alcohol dependency counselor who specializes with depression.
Talk to your doctor and follow his/her recommended treatment. We all have issues that need to be taken care of.
Yup when I was newly sober the clarity and fresh air were amazing. Around the 3rd month though my feelings were too much to deal with. ..I started going to see a therapist and that in tandem with AA has helped in my growth and peace so much. 
I got sober with some significant mental health issues five years ago. Everyone talks about voices and dissociation in the rooms and it was easy for me to continue to minimise my suffering. ..I didn't get my PTSD diagnosis until last year. It explains a lot!.I started getting outside help and found a brilliant specialist who is 12 step friendly. ..My first question when looking around for mental health support is to establish how accepting they are of abstinence. The mental health focus in my country is harm minimisation. I'm not spending my hard earned on someone who fundamentally disagrees with my way of life. Lord if I could minimise drinking through my own steam I wouldn't need AA [end rant]. ..I did not get sober to live a half life or settle for kinda sorta ok..While I'm still in the badlands at the moment - I'm starting to see a faint light at the end of a very long dark tunnel. ... 
Congratulations on 88 days. Two more and you can get a 90 day chip.  That's a good thing right?  Have you considered going early to a meeting to help make coffee or set up chairs? A simple act I know but it could help to change that voice in your head...After 20 years sober I recently started seeing a therapist again because I have issues that AA was not helping with.   AA absolutely encourages us to seek help from outside professionals.  Hang in there. 
I believe any alcoholic should see a therapist. We often claim that the steps are the be all end all. I don't believe that's true. A sponsor and a counselor are two different things as well. I've been using them in tandem and have found that each had an interesting perspective in different things...No shame in getting counseling!
I've been there. Drinking never made anything better. I have enough on my plate to deal with sober and if I can go to bed knowing I've taken steps in the right direction then I've done what I can. ..I go to AA meetings because I find it helpful to be around people who struggle with day-to-day problems without resorting to drinking. ..I also go to therapy and take medication...As long as I don't drink one drink I know I have a chance. 
I too suffer from mental illness which I attempted to treat with alcohol. A big part of my recover was getting my mental disorder diagnosed by a psychiatrist getting on the right psychotropic medication and doing cognitive behavioral therapy with a therapist. 
I also suffer from mental illness. I went to rehab in 2016. It was great in that I was able to pause my life and focus on sobriety. However I quickly realized there were a ton of mental issues that I used drugs and alcohol to mask and help me cope with. ..Thankfully in the last year I've started seeing a therapist who has really helped me get to the root of why I used. My feelings were just too much and before when I felt things too intensely I would drink. A few months ago I was diagnosed as bipolar. Now I'm working on dealing with that. ..A lot of people focus only on the using part but not on why they used. Focus on the why and try to fix that. You're not wrong for wanting to do that. You'll be so much happier and better in the long run. I know I am. 
I have depression and I'm on antidepressants...I have found the 12 steps to be immensely helpful in my mental maintenance routine.
I found myself in a very similar situation. I presently have just over three months but before two relapses had eight months. (The only and longest stretch of sobriety of my life.).For me I've only felt a release from the fourth step and also this book called The Untethered Soul. .Was very helpful in letting the intrusive thoughts past through me rather than putting myself down for simply thinking them in the first place. .Also when I've had moments when I've felt really bad I force myself to meditate. It's crazy how much it helps me. .Keep going. Which you will. Even things that feel like 'setbacks' can teach you. .Thank you for your post. I needed to be reminded. 
Your disease will use all kinds of tricks to get back in...I've heard plenty of people in the rooms talk about 'the committee' jabbering away in their heads.  ..I found that the longer I stayed clean the quieter the voices got...Good luck. 
Been there. Still there but it's gotten much better. ..For years of my life probably all of adulthood I was engaged in self-loathing by measuring myself to other people's goddamn standards...My mother would call me unemployed and jobless even though I own my own business successfully for years and made tons of money doing it...I fooled myself that because I didn't wear a suit and go into an office that I was a failure. Not worthy of my place I earned in society...You can't judge your worth by other people metrics of success. We all have to learn to love ourselves. We're all good and excel at something unique. We have to like that about ourselves...Good luck on your recovery. 90 days is the hardest. Also consider psychotherapy or medication too. Helped me a ton.
Most helpful to me: AA NA substance abuse counseling CBT and medication. 
Mooji Byron Katie &amp; Eckhart Tolle helped me realize my thoughts aren't who I am. ..Stick with it. For me it got better albeit slowly. I was crippled with depression &amp; anxiety and drank in large part to manage those. While drinking helped temporarily it made it worse in the long run. Far worse because I wasn't confronting them head-on...The 12-steps meditation &amp; those individuals I listed earlier in this post all helped immensely. In that order I'd say.
The voice can be easily silenced with consistent /r/meditation...Some of the feelings may require outside help and very possibly medication.  I found myself very suicidal in early recovery when my only tool for coping had been taken away and I was still early into meditation ... I've been on a low-dose anti-depressant ever since and could very well be dead otherwise...As much as this program is a "design for living that works" and all that - it is designed to solve alcoholism - and it does that exceedingly well.  There are plenty of other issues though that require other solutions.
I too have depression and pretty severe anxiety attacks. I remember wanting to die when. I was a teenager and youth I was just unhappy. Ironically alcohol gave me something to live for but then it turned on me too never to work again like it did in the "good Ole days".... I went over 2 Years completely sober in AA then I made the mistake of going to a doctor people always say go get outside help. Well all a doctor knows how to do is prescribe pills even when I told the doctor I was a recovering alcoholic they put me on dangerous addictive pharma drugs. Doctors don't understand addiction /alcoholism. I went a through a couple of years of absolute hell the pills barely helped but getting off them was absolute hell I felt like killing myself or others..I have mental health issues adhd depression anxiety and who know what else.... What I have found is there is NOT MAGIC PILL. Every pill drug legal or illegal are all the exact same they work for a bit then they don't then you have original problems and now drug withdrawal...... Hence the huge uptick in suicides lately... .For me the AA program and fellowship which include prayer and meditation. Then also getting lots of exercise and waking up early help me far more than any doctor has.... When I'm really depressed or anxious I just try to read more pray more go to more meetings and help others.... It really works..... Hope that helps enjoy the day :) 
I hear you loud and clear. My father committed suicide when I was 15 (my childhood wasnt all roses before then either) and I started drowning the guilt from then until my sobriety date. Seek help it can't hurt. I l fight the same battle as you. It helps me to be rational. When I think of taking a drink to soften that voice in my head I keep closer all the times that it never helped. 
