-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8udovh/how_can_i_help_him/

My(25f) boyfriend(27m) have been together 4 years and we have both struggled with alcohol throughout the years. It has been worse and it has been better. I still drink but not often. He however drinks almost every night. He says it's because his (sleep) schedule is messed up and he's bored. He can go 2-3 nights without it but not even that usually. ..This morning when he came to bed he said that he needed help he needs someone to step in. I want to help him. Should I suggest that we should both go to AA? Should I suggest he go alone? I'm more than willing to stop drinking at all to not temp him or make him feel left out but idk what else to do as far as helping him goes? ..Any advice on what steps I should take to try to help him or things I could do to help him help himself? Thank!
----------immediate responses--------

It's going to be tough and I just went thru the same thing with mine. He ended up always going back to it and when I saw a counselor she told me they usually always pick the addiction over the person. ..But if he wants help I would start with AA and if he doesn't like the 12 step (I didn't) have him find a counselor 
Yes AA meeting as a first step! Go along with him to support and learn if you like. So wonderful that he recognizes he needs help!  
If you have insurance treatment is a good place to start because of the safe detox from alcohol and the days of basically enforced sobriety. PM if you'd like information on that...Treatment or not you'll want to get him to an AA meeting ASAP. He needs to get in there and find a sponsor immediately. Go with him to the meeting as support or if you think you may have a problem as well you can identify as an alcoholic...One thing is for certain though in his early days you cannot be drinking around him nor is it acceptable to have alcohol around the house...
Check out /r/alanon
Many people do very well with AA. I always suggest you try several different meetings before deciding if AA is for you or not. Most AA people will tell you there are some meetings members that are way more helpful to them than others...Some primary care physicians are willing to prescribe naltrexone or acamprosate. In many places there is chemical dependency counseling available on a income based sliding scale. Getting a physical and medical advice about stopping alcohol is a good way to start...The 'This Naked Mind' book and youtube channel many people have found very useful...On using alcohol for sleep and anxiety problems tons of research shows it is marginally beneficial for a very short period of time and then tends to make everything a lot worse. My experience is that the research isn't off.. 
Support him if he wants to buy no means no. I would recommend AA and alanon for you take care of you! 
