-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8ukx8y/11_days/

11 days sober from a six year drunk I hold my head up high I don't put on a front. On my way up the mountain you can see me from far only light I can see is god my only star. This journey is just the beginning in which I hope is never ending. The power the mindset the emotions I feel where has this been I hope this is real. My mind is returning my body is repairing I thank so much my wife for always caring. Her silent prayers her words of inspiration she knew the battles I was constantly facing. She didn't turn she didn't run away at most time she knew exactly what to say. Yes it is hard turning away from something so long but I'm seeing clearer now this is my song. From the pop of the top to down the hatch so many times lost I don't want to relapse. Gotta keep it together gotta stay strong I can do this I've already went this long. Nothing can bring me down for I am the tiger I grab it and roar and let it know I'm a fighter. The happiness of the bottle I can find in life. I have it right beside me it's my daughter and wife. Another one on the way thank you god for this beautiful gift hopefully from now on I can continue to lift. Lift myself higher than ever before no more black nights and women from unknown sores. For I am the mountain you can try but ur not bringing me down from this day on I'll never see me on the ground. I am me and I am who chooses my fate I just hope others will see it before it's to late. Stay strong stay positive and never have doubt for alcohol is one thing I promise you can live without. 
----------immediate responses--------

What's your plan for getting to 12 days ?
You're at the aa sub so I'm thinking you're hitting meetings. 
Been here before but I failed last time. Just try's me to spread positivity 
Stubborn or foolish 
This isn't the forum for saying what is politically correct because god forbid we hurt someone's precious feelings. This is life and death if you want your hand held go to a therapist. Or are you concerned about a downvote ? If someone is 8 days sober they need to hear the truth. Don't sugarcoat it. If you're not an advocate of AA then get the fuck off of here. This program has helped millions in my 16 years I have seen so many miracles. It works. But it takes work it's not accidental it's the same program they used in 1935 ( basically) . Get passionate about this thing and pass it on with the same passion. 
Nice rhyme. Really.  ...Thank you for sharing.
Damn guys really
