-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8uxdo2/i_finally_got_thru_1_day_without_drinking_after_a/

I drink everyday never skip a day.. I drink beer almost all day it seems I cannot live without it at this point.. Its pretty sad.. But lately well I should say for several years now ive been trying to make efforts to get off this bad habit.. Its been a struggle.. Within the last week Ive made efforts to cut back the amount of beers I consume in a day to eventually having a day without a single beer.. I started doing this about a week ago with cutting myself to only 15 beers a day(i usually drink 24+).. Then the following day I gave myself a limit of 10 then the next day 7.. and so on down to 3-4 beers for the last 2 nights.. I did this to hopefully kill the major withdrawel I would have if I just stopped from 24+ beers cold turkey to Zero....So here I am the following day after the day I had Zero.. I made it thru.. and its already midway thru today day 2 of sobriety.. obviously I want to keep going but at the same time I kinda want to reward myself....Not sure whats gonna happen tonight but I still feel somewhat proud of my small accomplishment....Thanks for reading..
----------immediate responses--------

Have you looked into AA meetings?..Go online there's probably one near you.  Even if you doin't like everything about it you can get a ton of information and find people near you who want to stay clean...Good luck
not a small accomplishment.  managing a day without a drink is not easy after drinking daily.  what is your goal related to alcohol?  before you recently tapered down did you try anything else to go without alcohol?
That's great! Something I was never able to do on my own power before coming to AA. ...As they say in meetings  the trick is staying stopped.  Reading your post reminded me of my old habit that basically went "Well gee I've been drinking less for a while now  I've been good  I owe it to myself to get bombed!"  ...And I would.  Never could realise how insane that was...
Congratulations. Need to start somewhere. ..How did the man climb Mt. Everest ? He took the first step. ..It is hard. Beer was my poison as well. 
You may not have enjoyed the tapering down. If you don't taper back up you'll be ahead. But if you drink after you decided you won't drink you may understand something valuable about how much your decisions matter regarding alcohol...Good luck.
Tomorrow is another opportunity to get healthy 
