-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8v56xp/relaspes/

Hey guys! I'm 3 months sober and brand new to AA. I've been struggling with this question on my mind. Is it in evitable that we will relapse at some point  in our recovery? ..Thanks for any feedback. For me personally- I have a sponsor who I call daily and work the steps with. I go to 1 meeting a day and have been for almost all 3 of those months. Relapse is always in the corner of my mind and when I start to think of it I tell on myself to my support group of people from AA not my enablers. My disease talks to me sometimes and says this is all for not because at some point you're gonna screw up. I've been praying to my higher power to take the obsession and the craving..Thanks again! Keep coming back!
----------immediate responses--------

I know countless people who never relapsed. It sounds like Ike you are doing everything that AA asks us to do especially the steps. I think our sobriety strengthen in time so be optimistic and easy does it one day at a time.
Don't worry about ling term relapse. Focus on the day you are currently living and embrace the gift of sobriety you have been given day by day. Congratulations on your first 90! 
Relapse is absolutely not necessary.
Our disease wants us dead it's our daily purpose to keep it at bay. Relapses should be taken very seriously and they certainly aren't necessary. There never is a guarantee we'll make it back in. We've got some folks that I cannot keep track of. They seem to think it's funny. Anyway you guard your sobriety nobody fucks with my program. Enough out of me. I'll think good thoughts for you. 
I quit drinking alcohol for good when I was 13.  I relapsed a thousand times over 32 years.  Then I went to AA. After medically detoxing I have not had a drink since.  I continue to attend AA meetings.  I use the steps in my life daily and I look forward to building on my continued sobriety.  There is a solution.  Never stop seeking and asking questions.  In the mean time pat yourself on the back for waking up without a hang over and look for how you can help others.  It keeps getting better.  
No they are not inevitable. AA works every time for those who work the program. If you are reading/studying the big book like your life depends on it and doing Exactly what they did in the big book I guarantee you'll stay sober.... I've been around the rooms for almost 20 yrs and my sponsor has 33 yrs sober. He always says he has never ever seen a single person relapse that was doing the program. He says it's always the same story they stopped praying stopped going to meetings stopped doing what they did to get sober...... As long as you continue to do the AA program (first 104 pages of the big book) to the best of your ability you will stay sober. I would highly recommend listening to Joe and Charlie for free on silkworth.Net. Ask anyone in over 10 yrs sober about Joe and Charlie they will all say they're awesome... You never have to drink again!! 
Help other alcoholics. Can't keep it if you don't give it away. 
Relapse is not part of recovery or part of the AA program despite what you might hear from various treatment center gurus. The only way relapse is inevitable is if you don't take the steps.
Relapse is not necessary.  I drank alcoholically for 30 years came into AA followed directions and haven't picked up a drink or drug since.  For me the mental obsession was removed and I haven't had a troubling thought about drinking for many years.
one day at a time-don't be concerned about failures 
Relapse is not inevitable. I have not had a drink since the day I entered rehab almost 36 years ago. I learned everything I could about alcoholism and recovery went to AA meetings  had a sponsor and worked the steps and had a therapist. I was desperate to get well and willing to do anything to make that happen. ..Take it one day at a time.  Kudos for 3 months.
Relapse is a part of some peoples' stories. It doesn't have to be a part of yours. Definitely the disease talking when I think things like that (that  real alcoholics  have relapses or that it's inevitable). 
I'm at 3 and a quarter years and I haven't relapses. I have a daily program of living which means that I never have to feel that way again. Many people relapse I have heard all of their stories: listen to them and learn from them but focus on listening to the old-timers with way more time. Relapse is NOT a part of recovery.                ..When I walked in the rooms on day one a man sat me down and started going through the book with me. He told me "you never have to drink again" and I haven't.
Imo that depends what the alcoholic does/does not do to recover  and for how long they stay involved. No blanket stats but most of us underestimate what we're up against and short our chances of succeeding.
Relapse is NOT a requirement. 
