-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8w8cao/hit_rock_bottom_last_night_accepted_it_tonight/

Hey everyone. First post here. I'll keep this fairly short as I'm headed to bed soon but I need to write this down and be held accountable...My first stint at sobriety was when I was 18 years old. I made it a bit over 2 years and relapsed pretty badly. Got sober again for a few months and didn't maintain it after that. I didn't "fully" relapse because I had "control" of the situations. If I felt like I needed to drink or wanted to drink too much I would back off and start again when it felt like I had got a handle on the situation. I did this for about 3 years. I was basically playing Russian Roulette with my "sobriety" or alcoholism...This last year I didn't have control over anything nor did I try to. I just let all of my recovery and recovery techniques slip out of my mind. I'm now in full relapse. Not the back and forth relapse I've been playing with these last few years but full blown destructive relapse. Square one on the recovery process. The only difference is this time I know I *have* to stay in recovery. I can not play games with alcoholism. I am not bigger than it is. I am not in control of it. I can pretend for months even years but at the end of the day I am an alcoholic. It is who I am and I can let that be my defining trait or I can fix this again one last time. And that's what I'm going to do. My day one starts today (it's 1:40am). I am officially and indefinitely in recovery and I'm going to make it last this time...Thanks for listening. I look forward to being a part of this community as there are no local AA meetings I can attend.   
----------immediate responses--------

Welcome back!  It takes courage to make change.  Good for you for having enough insight to move forward...The Big Book and the Twelve Steps and Twelve Traditions are available to read online or stream and listen to at aa.org.
Intherooms.com has virtual video meetings. Get back to the program you can do this!!
[AA Phone Meetings Link](http://aaphonemeetings.org/)..Have a hug I hope it fits.
I'm right here with you. Thank you for the share. 
