-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8wmmee/steps_to_take_when_you_were_close_to_a_relapse/

I'm newly sober and I went to the grocery store. While at check out the lady in front of me was buying 6 bottles of liquor a case of beer and a six pax. I became VERY transfixed on it. I never met a slower cashier in my life than I did in that moment. She bagged the items so slowly I swear it was almost on purpose. Immediately I thought I should just push my cart to the side and grab a couple bottles myself- screw this whole AA thing. It was so hard to stand there with my cart of groceries but at the same time I felt frozen. I was even sweating (out of anger as weird as it sounds). I just wanted out of there. Now that it's all over and my groceries are in the cupboard I just feel exhausted- but I feel like I need to do something because I was too close to a relapse. Any suggestions?
----------immediate responses--------

Call someone in AA
if that happens again i would just straight up bail and leave your shit sitting there. there's other stores and they can reshelve your stuff.
I'd be calling a sponsor and ask them to get me through the steps. You don't have to whit knuckle it if you get in the work.
Do you have a 24 hour chip with the Serenity prayer on it.  I spent many early days twiddling it in my fingers and saying the prayer in my head.  I focused on my breathing. Silently saying  please  on the in breath and  thank you  on the out breath.  If other people choose to drink that is not for me to judge.  I used these meditations. To stay focused on my now. Setting aside all judgements of my former self or others.  ..Keep up the meetings  call a fellowship member daily so when something happens calling is already a habit. 
ice cream aisle for me. .
How much of a presence alcohol-related stuff had was a useful indicator for me. When in emotional balance I wasn't aware of booze roadsigns or booze trucks in traffic or where the booze isle was in a supermarket. The more out of balance I was the more I saw bars and drinkers and the rest...When I noticed I'd up my level of inconvenience (hit an extra meeting talk to more new guys do some reading).
The Walmart in my town lined the entrance with beer.  The other grocery stores have giant bins of $1 mini bottles of alcohol next to the cash registers.  ..I was sitting in an NA meeting to get a different perspective and it occurred to me that I would never relapse by doing drugs like heroin crack crystal meth etc.  Why?  Because I know with 99.9&amp;#37; certainty that these substances would completely ruin my life.  So I thought if I know alcohol will also ruin my life why do I consider heroin to be that different than alcohol???..Alcohol is my heroin.  I can't use it socially and I can't use it infrequently.  Period.  ..Whenever I notice alcohol at the grocery store I remind myself it is the equivalent to heroin and I force myself not to look directly at it... because why bother?
Call somebody in the program. ..I absolutely refused to call anybody for such a long time thinking I could get over the cravings myself thinking nobody would want to talk to me anyway thinking I'd be interrupting them thinking they'd think less of me... Until I actually tried calling somebody one day. Because I remembered hearing "My own best thinking got me here" from so many people because I remembered how many times I'd done the wrong thing just on autopilot because people had given me suggestions and maybe there was something to what they told me...It was an awkward start: "Hi I'm not really sure what to say I just... I feel like I want a drink even though I don't really want to." And on the other side of the line they said "I've been there!" And we talked and the craving faded away. It doesn't have to be a long conversation maybe 5 or 10 minutes. Very rarely have I ever had a call go more than maybe 20 minutes. But the whole idea was just to interrupt my own cycle of thinking get out of my head and change my focus...It works if you work it. Really...If you don't have numbers can't call (or just *won't* call) then get to a meeting. Seeing people in person being a part of the group raising your hand when they ask "Does anyone have a burning desire?" and unloading this type of thing - that's like the entire point of the fellowship. Helping each other out.
Work the Steps. 
Are you working the steps with a sponsor?
Anyplace or anything can be a trigger.  I carried mints in my pocket for about a year to put in my mouth whenever I started feeling that way to calm me down.  It is only a trigger but they can cause big reactions.  What other people do is none of my beeswax.  Take care of yourself first.  Leave the trigger area and call someone if you can.  Get away from what upsets you.  
Call someone pray eat sweets (don't worry about eating perfectly right while you're busy saving your life diet etc can wait a while - same goes for if you smoke cigarettes they're not good for you but there's no sense in worrying about that right now if the alternative is death from alcoholism) when you're out of that situation listen to speaker tapes online that will give you loads to think about in those moments read the big book if you have an e reader there are different versions with different stories in them I like to go through and highlight all the bits that resonate or teach me something browse this subreddit or another aa website on your phone
