-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8wv1r5/i_relapsed_last_night/

My DOC is GHB. ..I love it because I'm on a drug patch breathalyzer and home confinement. I had 50 days sober. ..I passed out in the shower and broke my front tooth and fucked my face up along with the shower door. ..I'm glad I can be honest about what transpired last night. ..I need more words of encouragement and I honestly think I need to go back to rehabilitation. I'm not good by myself. ..Anything will be helpful in this time of need; I'm awaiting my Sponsor's phone call. I let him know with my sponsorship family 
----------immediate responses--------

Did you call your sponsor before you relapsed? I'm really sorry you hurt yourself but you know it never needs to happen again. Since you can admit you may need rehab again that means there is still a lot of hope for you you can do it!
How did you get the GHB? Did you call someone to bring it to you? Lose your dealers number and call someone in recovery instead.
 I messed up on my first drink when I decided to stop drinking on June 29th three days later I was about it again drinking. It is never just one it's always going crazy overboard with drinking  I  have a mysterious scab the size of two half dollars on my knee that tells me I was thrashed. 
Unfortunately relapse is a part of recovery for so many of us. The only real mistake you can make is to not come back so dust off the shirt and double triple or quadruple your efforts in AA. 
I'm sorry to hear this happened. It sure happened to me many times before I finally got it. ..Those 5 suggestions are the best deterrents for a "disastrous first drink". ..Remember the only drink we need to avoid is the 1st one. Once we take that one we lose any ability to control our drinking. ..Aside from that if you have a desire to stop drinking the steps will work with: honesty open-mindedness and willingness. 
Honesty is so important. It's good you called your sponsor right away!
Call your sponsor get busy doing steps. Pray and ask God for help because it's clear that your ideas suck. You can't do this whatever it is out there even if it's people just believing is much more Powerful than you'll ever be in this respect. 
