-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8x0pg9/i_am_so_grateful_to_be_an_alcoholic/

At tonight's AA meeting the topic was "There is a solution". It struck a chord with me because when I came into AA over two years ago I was so desperate for a solution to my drinking. Instead AA has given me a solution for *living*...For about eight years I thought I drank because I was unhappy. For the last three years I started thinking I was unhappy because I drank. Through AA I've learnt that neither are exactly true. I drank and I was unhappy because I suffered from untreated alcoholism. Sometimes receiving a diagnosis is the first step in getting well. ..I have chronic pain and for years I and my doctors have searched for a cause. I've had blood tests xrays etc and today my diagnosis is "unspecified chronic pain query cause". And while everyone thought I should be happy with every negative result because it meant that I didn't have fractures or rheumatoid arthritis or lupus the truth was every time all I heard was "we still don't know what's wrong with you". If it had been any of those awful things at least there would have been a clear way forward a treatment plan. ..Through AA I have learnt about the disease of alcoholism. And AA has offered me a method of treatment a prescription for living. I've come to learnt that alcohol was a symptom of a bigger problem and that simply putting it down wasn't enough. And that sucked at the beginning because all I wanted to be taught was how not to drink. But today I'm so incredibly grateful because through working a simple program with other alcoholics my life is fuller and more amazing than anything I could have dreamed of...At tonight's meeting there was someone who was on their third day sober; another member had returned from a relapse with 5 days; another was celebrating a year; another was celebrating 28 years. We all drank differently and appear to have very different lives and stories. But we all have two things in common: we're alcoholic and there is a solution for all of us. ..Keep coming back SD IWNDWYT
----------immediate responses--------

Thank you for sharing this. The way I see it I guess I had to go to that place to get to this place. (Channeling Eminem there in Not Afraid). Make me grateful.   
Your sharing is helping others. So thank u ou!
I have the same experience with undiagnosed chronic pain always felt disappointed when the doctor said  good news!  after some test. I don't yet feel grateful for alcoholism but I'm sure I will eventually because I believe what I have heard from people who have worked the steps. But I do feel immense relief to finally know what is wrong with me spiritually.
