-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8x0tql/if_you_have_secretly_relapsed_dont_be_ashamed/

A friend confided in me that they have been secretly using and drinking for the past couple of months. The guilt and shame has kept them out of the rooms and they haven't talked to anyone... Just isolating and beating themselves up about it...I've been taking them to meetings and just being an ear for them to vent to. I don't say this to brag I say this cause their secret almost killed them and I don't want for anyone...The bottom line is that we have all relapsed many times we just didn't have a program to go or chips to pick up before joining AA. Don't let shame or guilt keep you out... Tell someone... Come back... Keep trying... You never have to do this alone...May God bless you and keep you till then
----------immediate responses--------

Great message.   I think it would be hard to return but I have always seen others in this situation welcomed back with even more support than before. Keep coming back. 
At my home group they ask before every meeting if there are any newcomers anyone returning from a relapse or any visitors. Some of the best meetings I have ever been to have been the ones where someone shares that they are coming back. It really does keep us all sober seeing that it could have easily been any of us. 
Brilliant post. This message needs to be shared more often. Thank you.  
I spoke at a detox yesterday and I was trying to relay that the relapses they've encountered in the past are in the past. In my experience I've found it really difficult to explain to someone that relapsing isn't the end of the world. 
There are also levels to a relapse it sucks to have to lose all the days you've built up but if that leads to a full on episode or even falling back into old habits that's infinitely worse than starting at Day 1. 
I drank secretly on and off for about three years. I was miserable. I was also terrified. I just wanted people to think that I was okay   but I wasn't okay. It wasn't until I confided in a friend that I started to feel free. ..I think I felt more chained secretly drinking in AA than I did before I came in. ..Thanks for sharing! 
Took a meeting into jail yesterday and there was a guy that had relapsed hearing him share was probably the most important thing I heard all week. I hope I see him at a meeting when he gets out again.....
We don't shoot our wounded. 
The hugely out of proportion fear of looking bad to people who most often didn't make it their first time around (or 23rd) is nuts. Dying instead of overcoming it is even crazier.
I'm probably secretly relapsing. Don't have a sponsor anymore. Turned off by the program. Tired of the non sense "you must work the steps you must sing our song". Love the fellowship. Still going to meetings. I've been honest with people in the group about this and have not been pressured by anyone. I've asked someone to sponsor me but they were "busy". I think that was enough for me that I don't want to waste anyone else's time. I don't plan on stopping going to meetings but we'll see how that goes.
It was hard for me to return. Every time.  Until I came to terms with the reality of my situation. I was fighting for my life  and if I kept beating myself up or let my ego and pride dominate my willingness or if I  worried about getting judged by people in the rooms about it then I was going to die. Recovery for me has not been linear. But every time I learned something new about myself and the nature of my  disease. It  doesn't have to take a relapse to realize that but it definitely take what it takes.    Not trying to be preachy but find the people in the rooms who  take recovery serious.   Fighting for your life  physicality spiritually and mentally is no joke man. We are behind enemy lines here. I'm fucking tired of watching people die.
If  you relapse most people think you're a loser and treat you like one if you come back. That's my experience. You're marked. I appreciate your encouraging sentiment but its not really realistic.
i've been treated like shit at meetings after admitting a relapse. nobody loves a loser they worship heroes. thats just human nature. 
