-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8x2qmp/does_one_drink_count_as_a_relapse/

After detoxing in December I've remained completely sober until last night. I really just missed the taste of wine and had a few sips during a beautiful dinner with friends. It had no effect on me during or after it was merely for the palate. I definitely have no desire to drink today but alcohol is alcohol. .Does this count as a relapse? . .. ..
----------immediate responses--------

If it were me yes it's a relapse. Have you talked to your sponsor about it?..I don't know anything about you but in the past before I ever worked the steps there were times when I had experiences like this. They never led me anywhere good. 
To thine own self be true. It sounds like you think it's a relapse. 
Reminds me of my last relapse. Started out just like that then began to think I had control again as it gradually kept increasing. Until i finally got back to my old habits. Glad that only last a few months &amp; I was able to quit again. Got 4 months sober this time around. ..Honestly though you should talk to your sponsor about it. Sounds really iffy to me. But deciding if it's a relapse or not is between you &amp; your higher power. That's not for me to decide. I just know where actions like that could lead me &amp; I pray your stronger than me in this aspect 
Here lies the problem if you don't treat it like a relapse. You'll do it again  because in your mind there were no ramifications and you got away with it. That is how our mind works. It may not happen tomorrow  but I guarantee it will happen. If you want to have this thing work you cannot have dirty little secrets  you are playing with fire.   This is my experience having had relapses and also now having been around a long time. 
It's unlikely you will never miss the taste of wine again. If that is a sufficient reason to drink to you then this is likely to happen occasionally. If you do a little chippie drinking now and then it's unlikely to work out well for you. Resolving the questions around this and starting again to achieve a more solid sobriety is important if you want to stay abstinent long term.
Motive is the key. I accidentally took a drink of alcoholic Root Beer about 10 months in. I immediately called my sponsor freaking out. He just laughed and said did you do it on purpose? I explained no I thought it was just regular root beer. It wasn't until I looked closer at the label and it said in 6 point font HARD. That did not count. 
My uncle quit drinking after 2 DUIs.  He then started drinking a glass of wine on a regular basis.  He made it about 8 months before getting his third DUI...I drank some apple cider vinegar (supposedly it's very healthy) and it made me uncomfortable because the fermented taste reminded me of beer...I personally would avoid drinking any alcohol.
We have to be willing to go any lengths to be sober. That includes not drinking and being honest when we do. It doesn't matter if it was one glass or a bottle. This is Alcoholics Anonymous and if you're going to work the program you need to be rigorously honest. ..Sorry for the tough love but if we're drinking we're not sober. 
I think what is considered a relapse is for the individual in recovery to decide. Do you feel like this was a relapse? Will you forever add a mental asterisk when you tell someone your sobriety date? If you honestly feel that this wasn't a relapse and that that sip of wine was nothing then I see no reason to change your sobriety date. However I think you need to decide right now what you do consider a relapse because it's a slippery slope. If a sip is okay why not a glass or two glasses and so on.
I know this isn't smart recovery but they would consider it a lapse and not a relapse. There is no need to allow a momentary lapse turn into a full-blown relapse. With a few sips  of  fermented decaying vegetable liquid you did not suddenly unlearn everything you have learned during your sobriety. Onward!!!
Yes one drink counts as a relapse.  
To thine own self be true. For me time and a sobriety date is about ego honesty about myself and where I'm at is humbling and puts me in God's grace   
I had a little glass of champagne and orange juice at a sunday bunch because I thought it was ok and then i lost my 2 cars my boat my home my kids my wife to the addiction and a 45 dollars an hour job. yeah I had a relapse a big one. ..p.s. I was sober for maybe 25 days if i remember right. finally got sober was given custody and on 7/23/98 will have 20 years God willing. ..don't temp fate I guess is what I'm sayin. god bless
It would for me. 
Thy own self be true. I've been spiked.. twice once I didn't know (thought it was cherry coke but the guy who didn't understand what I was doing put cherry vodka in boy I tore through the garbage bags hoping to find an empty bottle of coke) and the other was a girl I dated at the time had a starbucks tea I brought her. She drank it and put wine which looked the same color I sipped it then spit it out over her room lol. Also am on medications which some would instantly claim relapse I took low dose of dxm 40-60mg for a few weeks so I could last longer in bed and have taken preworkout stuff. When I'm laying down in bed there is no guilt or shame. That's my test to see if I'm living right..I had a sponsee who felt it necessary to take a psychedelic for is mental disorder. I can't tell someone whats right or wrong. I did suggest he see a psychologist / psychiatrist first but that's between him and God. He was a straight liquor alcoholic no other stuff had a bit over two years. He vocalized his actions in a meeting which spread back to his home support system and requested he picked up a desire chip to be allowed to work with other men. I went to bat for him even though I knew it wouldn't mean anything. He has since reclaimed his origional sobriety data - he didn't drink and felt like a desire chip was a lie &amp; to please other people. .Again thy own self be true
If I intentionally drank alcohol I would consider myself relapsed and would reset my sobriety date.  I would also be grateful it was only 1/2 glass of wine because it would represent a very minor relapse.  Best wishes for getting back on a recovery path.
Yes it counts. It took me a while to be around friends drinking or restaurants where everyone is drinking. Now it doesn't bother me 7 years later.
There's a difference between a lapse and a relapse. I'd call your situation more of a lapse but even then according to what you've shared you didn't drink with the intent to get drunk or to pursue further drinks after. 
