-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8xhhsa/death_coming/

i can't get to a meeting. nobody wants to be my sponsor. i'm all alone here. i get nothing but negative vibes from AA. i suppose i am one of those who cannot be helped. nobody wants to sponsor a hippie. i am really starting to hate AA. too smug and self satisfied. nobody knows what its like to struggle or don't bother to remember what its like.
----------immediate responses--------

You've already decided that we can't help you. Why are you posting here ?
Not everyone in AA is the same. If you ask for help people may help you. But here's the thing. You need to understand that the people with or without serious time are all still recovering. Some people come to AA to 13th step. Some come to control other peoples lives (or attempt to). People still have their problems. Look out for yourself. If no one will sponsor you either find another meeting or keep going to meetings without a sponsor. A sponsor is not mandatory but is suggested. Remember that the only REQUIREMENT for AA membership is a desire to stop drinking.
What qualifies you as a "hippie"? [It's a serious question.]!
Try this..."I am reaching out because I need help and support. I am struggling with (fill in the blank here). I am willing to follow suggestions and do what it takes to stay sober."
Have you tried different meetings? I've been in and out of AA for many years and I've found that when I'm ready the right people are there. I'm currently back in the program as of July 4th. I saw a woman that had what I wanted and it took all I had to talk to her but when I did she hugged me. We have a responsibility to be there if anyone in AA reaches out for help. Please keep trying different meetings or different times. We need you you help keep us sober. Also try calling the local AA office.  They can help you find a temporary sponsor and rides to meetings. 
r/stopdrinking is great...theres a lot more people there to chat with and stuff...just a suggestion. It helps me a lot just reading ths posts  
AA is not a hotbed of mental health. There's lots of idiots assholes pricks and people who come off as smug and arrogant...... If that's what you're looking for you will find it but AA is also full of the kindest nicest most sincere and helpful people I have ever met in my life. My first sponsor hit on me when we tried to do the steps (he's gay I'm straight) my second sponsor still owes me $20 but my 3rd sponsor was/is an amazing person and helped save my life. I kept going back because there was nowhere else to go once I lowered my expectations and just went anyways I got sober and I met the good people and there is more good than bad.... BY FAR!.... My wife is a member my best friends are all members of AA it's a good life but it ain't easy and no one will do it for you..... Self pity and feeling like you're "different" is bullshit don't listen to yourself.....     
I kept trying different meetings till one day it was a perfect match
OP ignore this asshat. Keep coming back and try different groups. Just take it a day at a time and know that in God's time the right sponsor will be put in your path. 
Attend anyway. Show up early without looking like you want to fight and shake some hands. When new I looked so angry that I frightened others. In one meeting I wasn't called on to speak for over 3 years because of that. Sad situation that was not their fault it was on me.
Try to find different meetings with new people I know it's hard without a car. Phone meetings too. It's surprising no one wants to sponsor you. At one of the meetings I go to at the end they say "Would everyone available for temporary sponsorship plese raise your hand?" And like 75% of a 40 person room does...guess I'm really blessed to be in a crowded area
I had to ask 4 people before I found my sponsor.  Was a little discouraging but I kept at it. Some meetings ask people available to be a temp sponsor to raise their hands at the end of the meeting. Also some have a sheet of people if you ask the secretary. Sometimes they work out but if not you can at least get started. 
\&gt;  nobody knows what its like to struggle ..Don't fool yourself nobody came into those rooms when things were good. Don't let your ego make you believe you are special as if you've suffered more than anyone else there. It's a lie. If you are so hopeless you have nothing to lose try meetings until you find the one you like. You need to make more of an effort AA wont come to you you have to come into AA.
I have the same issues with AA been in and out for years. Ive been sober from alcohol and hard drugs since february but still smoke weed. Deff feel like the outcast situation Im not a fan of NA either so idk what to do.
My Psych. tried to eliminate the superlatives (most extreme) words from my self talk like "nobody" "nothing" "never" and "can't" because they were rarely true and more accurately reflected my own mood or attitude.  For example describing members of an AA meeting as "nobody knows what it's like to struggle or don't bother to remember what it's like." is not credible.  Please go to more different meetings until you find the one that feels most comfortable.  May Lee Saturday at 10 AM at Club 24 in Cleveland Heights is a 100+ person meeting chock full of hippies in recovery sponsoring each other.  Maybe there is a similar meeting near you.
I used to talk &amp; think like this until I heard someone say  poor me poor me pour me a drink 
Don't sit on the pity pot too long or your butt will get sore - it is your sobriety - either do something about it or don't - no one else can do it for you - there are too many meetings in this world to not be happy with one - find another meeting - find a sponsor - go to meetings - work the steps - that is all there is to it 
