-------original submission--------

link: reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8xm8j9/recent_relapse/

Hello fellow AAs. I had a recent relapse with a concurring DUI. I'm filled with shame and regret. I'm not making it to meetings. The inner dialogue is quite sick these days. I do have a sponsor but she just lost her best friend so I am trying to not impede on her current healing or space. I'm lost and would appreciate some helping words.
----------immediate responses--------

You are not alone.  I hope you can find a way to be kind to yourself.  Reach out to any of your fellowship.  Meet for coffee. We all have today.  I hope you decide to go to meetings.  Take care. Be well.
Suggest you get back into a meeting and tell someone what happened and how you are feeling. We care about you. We are here for you. Reach out anytime!
Please don't let shame and  guilt keep you from a meeting.  Sharing your experience could save someone's life - maybe your own.  This is the nitty gritty it's the real stuff. It's what it's all about.  I see a lot of sugar coating going on in meetings and it is SO refreshing to hear someone just be brutally honest.  I'll be thinking of you. 
Your experience has so much value for other alcoholics to hear. I really encourage you to get to a meeting and share what's happened not just for your sake but because it could be exactly what another alcoholic needs to hear to keep them safe. Like another commenter said don't let shame keep you away. That's what the disease wants. You are worth so much more than that.
While you are giving your sponsor some space don't be afraid to reach out to others in your home group and try to get yourself to a meeting. People won't be judging you for your relapse they'll be proud of you for coming back.
Show up and tell the truth. Take in the support and care from the members...beating yourself up alone may lead to more drinking.
Rack up yet another DUI and you are likely to get enough jail time to dry out crispy!   You need to knock off the self-pity and whatever else is bothering you and get back with the program.  If you cannot break the cycle then get into a residential rehab.   It is easier and cheaper than jail fines and possibly hurting another (or yourself).   I have watched others do your scenario many times and it ends ugly unless you snap out of it.
Oww that is brutal.  You probably have an awful case of the self- hates.  You might want to think about getting a temporary sponsor.  Also posting on r/dui might help get some of your feelings out.  
Thanks guys. I'm still struggling but I  needed these words.
