fleeingmice,death coming,i can't get to a meeting. nobody wants to be my sponsor. i'm all alone here. i get nothing but negative vibes from AA. i suppose i am one of those who cannot be helped. nobody wants to sponsor a hippie. i am really starting to hate AA. too smug and self satisfied. nobody knows what its like to struggle or don't bother to remember what its like.,1,8xhhsa,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8xhhsa/death_coming/,30,2018-07-09T19:11:05
imnotinatheater,Relaspes,Hey guys! I'm 3 months sober and brand new to AA. I've been struggling with this question on my mind. Is it in evitable that we will relapse at some point  in our recovery? ..Thanks for any feedback. For me personally- I have a sponsor who I call daily and work the steps with. I go to 1 meeting a day and have been for almost all 3 of those months. Relapse is always in the corner of my mind and when I start to think of it I tell on myself to my support group of people from AA not my enablers. My disease talks to me sometimes and says this is all for not because at some point you're gonna screw up. I've been praying to my higher power to take the obsession and the craving..Thanks again! Keep coming back!,1,8v56xp,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8v56xp/relaspes/,18,2018-06-30T17:43:05
LifeGrindR,I finally got thru 1 day without drinking after a several month binge!!,I drink everyday never skip a day.. I drink beer almost all day it seems I cannot live without it at this point.. Its pretty sad.. But lately well I should say for several years now ive been trying to make efforts to get off this bad habit.. Its been a struggle.. Within the last week Ive made efforts to cut back the amount of beers I consume in a day to eventually having a day without a single beer.. I started doing this about a week ago with cutting myself to only 15 beers a day(i usually drink 24+).. Then the following day I gave myself a limit of 10 then the next day 7.. and so on down to 3-4 beers for the last 2 nights.. I did this to hopefully kill the major withdrawel I would have if I just stopped from 24+ beers cold turkey to Zero....So here I am the following day after the day I had Zero.. I made it thru.. and its already midway thru today day 2 of sobriety.. obviously I want to keep going but at the same time I kinda want to reward myself....Not sure whats gonna happen tonight but I still feel somewhat proud of my small accomplishment....Thanks for reading..,1,8uxdo2,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8uxdo2/i_finally_got_thru_1_day_without_drinking_after_a/,20,2018-06-29T18:43:38
jebbiialien,How can I help him?,My(25f) boyfriend(27m) have been together 4 years and we have both struggled with alcohol throughout the years. It has been worse and it has been better. I still drink but not often. He however drinks almost every night. He says it's because his (sleep) schedule is messed up and he's bored. He can go 2-3 nights without it but not even that usually. ..This morning when he came to bed he said that he needed help he needs someone to step in. I want to help him. Should I suggest that we should both go to AA? Should I suggest he go alone? I'm more than willing to stop drinking at all to not temp him or make him feel left out but idk what else to do as far as helping him goes? ..Any advice on what steps I should take to try to help him or things I could do to help him help himself? Thank!,1,8udovh,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8udovh/how_can_i_help_him/,7,2018-06-27T17:47:16
braapbraap69,How I stay sober 24 hrs at a time..... For many years now,"When we retire at night we constructively review our day. Were we resentful selfish dishonest or afraid? Do we owe an apology? Have we kept something to ourselves which should be discussed with another person at once? Were we kind and loving toward all? What could we have done better? Were we thinking of ourselves most of the time? Or were we thinking of what we could do for others of what we could pack into the stream of life? But we must be careful not to drift into worry remorse or morbid re ection for that would diminish our usefulness to others. After making our review we ask God's forgiveness and inquire what corrective measures should be taken...On awakening let us think about the twenty-four hours ahead. We consider our plans for the day. Before we begin we ask God to direct our thinking especially asking that it be divorced from self-pity dishonest or self-seeking motives. Under these conditions we can employ our mental faculties with assurance for after all God gave us brains to use. Our thought-life will be placed on a much higher plane when our thinking is cleared of wrong motives...In thinking about our day we may face indecision. We may not be able to determine which course to take. Here we ask God for inspiration an intuitive thought or a decision. We relax and take it easy. We don't struggle. We are often surprised how the right answers come after we have tried this for a while...87..What used to be the hunch or the occasional inspiration gradually becomes a working part of the mind. Being still inexperienced and having just made conscious contact with God it is not probable that we are going to be inspired at all times. We might pay for this presumption in all sorts of absurd actions and ideas. Nevertheless we  nd that our thinking will as time passes be more and more on the plane of inspiration. We come to rely upon it...We usually conclude the period of meditation with a prayer that we be shown all through the day what our next step is to be that we be given whatever we need to take care of such problems. We ask especially for freedom from self-will and are careful to make no request for ourselves only. We may ask for ourselves however if others will be helped. We are careful never to pray for our own sel sh ends. Many of us have wasted a lot of time doing that and it doesn't work. You can easily see why...If circumstances warrant we ask our wives or friends to join us in morning meditation. If we belong to a religious denomination which requires a de nite morning devotion we attend to that also. If not members of religious bodies we sometimes select and memorize a few set prayers which emphasize the principles we have been discussing. There are many helpful books also. Suggestions about these may be obtained from one's priest minister or rabbi. Be quick to see where religious people are right. Make use of what they offer...As we go through the day we pause when agitated or doubtful and ask for the right thought or action. We constantly remind ourselves we are no longer..88..running the show humbly saying to ourselves many times each day  Thy will be done.'' We are then in much less danger of excitement fear anger worry self-pity or foolish decisions. We become much more ef cient. We do not tire so easily for we are not burning up energy foolishly as we did when we were trying to arrange life to suit ourselves..It works it really does."..Step eleven Alcoholics Anonymous..... I read this passage everyday from day one of sobriety and practiced these principles. Even though you may not be at step eleven you can still practice these principles to get through the 24 hrs ahead..... Enjoy the day    ,1,8uau3h,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8uau3h/how_i_stay_sober_24_hrs_at_a_time_for_many_years/,5,2018-06-27T12:06:00
Veck123,The God Word.,https://aaagnostica.org/2016/11/03/the-god-word/..Article and link for newcomers struggling with the 'God' word. ,1,8u6uzg,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8u6uzg/the_god_word/,11,2018-06-27T00:59:26
imnotinatheater,Early Sobriety V Mental Illness,Hey guys. I'm 88 days sober. I've struggled hard my whole life with depression. I had a lot of childhood trauma and found that alcohol quieted the voice in my head that screamed  You're bad . I had completely forgotten about this voiced until Friday. I heard it in my head again. Then again on Sunday. I'm scared that the only way to shut it up is with alcohol. I don't want to go back. So far I've been giving my fear to my higher power and trying to meditate. To be honest that fear is still there. Any suggestions? Thanks!,1,8twe6b,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8twe6b/early_sobriety_v_mental_illness/,36,2018-06-25T22:31:23
bananakakes,Sponsor seems to be super negative about anyone she doesn't like including my boyfriend and best friend. What to do?,Some background; F29 Sober 1 year worked my first set of steps. I have a therapist working on outside issues a church family for spiritual issues and my sponsor (F50s) for program guide. ..I picked my now sponsor out about three months ago. I chose her because I have PTSD and she had helped me a lot as a friend and seemed to have good sobriety. She also has 3 years sober and seemed like a safe woman. My previous sponsor and I just got too close and she is now my best friend. My current boyfriend and I have had our fair share of struggles but now are in a very healthy place we both have therapy and we are both open and honest with each other. .My problem is that I'm starting to see a pattern of her being what I would consider extremely negative towards others she doesn't approve of. (I've noticed this more with men but have also heard her talk bad about women) I'm starting to feel extremely uncomfortable sharing anything with her because if I talk about someone she doesn't like the conversation always ends up with talking about all the worst things of that person. Last night she asked me how my relationship was doing and I told her great but more importantly I was really working on myself and felt very empowered by my therapist and that I was really making progress with my confidence. She seemingly randomly started tearing into the fact that right now my boyfriend and I are choosing to be abstinent  (our own personal reasons that we are dealing with in therapy) She went as far as to say that he was "too damaged and will never get better" I was really angry and took aback by that especially because we have had dramatically positive changes in our relationship and my therapist has told me that our relationship is quite healthy at this point. I realize our sponsors are supposed to be guides to our program and not our therapy or relationship guide. That being said I dont know if I'm being unreasonable by thinking of completing changing sponsors because of this pattern of negativity and bashing people I care a great deal for. Anyone with some time and sponsor/sponsee knowledge have any advice?,1,8t2d63,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8t2d63/sponsor_seems_to_be_super_negative_about_anyone/,21,2018-06-22T11:47:24
WhyyyyWait,I'm so scared that I'll see my coworker at my first meeting,My coworker is very open about being a member of AA and is actually the one who inspired me to try it. She doesnt know me as anything other then the painfully shy girl at work but she's my personal hero. She's a mom which is my dream and has overcome so many of the things that I struggle with. I deeply admire her and want her to like me too...I know she wont judge me for being an alcoholic since she's one too but what if she thinks I'm just in it for the attention or sympathy? What if she sees me and thinks 'psht I know this girl and she is not an alcoholic.' What if she tells people at work? I have so many illogical fears about this and I feel so paralyzed by it. ..So can someone tell me about experiences where you found out an someone you knew was gonna be in AA with you? I just have no idea what to expect.,1,8sjel5,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8sjel5/im_so_scared_that_ill_see_my_coworker_at_my_first/,26,2018-06-20T11:52:36
GenitalDiddler,I was contemplating Gods will and hardships the other day.,I'm a baby in my sobriety about a month. Just now getting to where I'm not obsessed with the idea of alcohol and I can actually relax again without concern of it triggering me (i only drank by myself at the end of the day)...So i was thinking about why God would grant me the hardships of becoming an alcoholic along with bipolar disorder with psychosis all coming to a point and hitting bottom within about 2 years of each other. I went to my sponsor after thinking about the alcohol part and he said "we all survived the same shipwreck and come together to help each other back to shore". I meditated on that a bit. What happens after a shipwreck? You are lost at sea in a inflatable raft just trying to survive. You can be there for a long time. When you finally get back to shore you are so grateful to be there and so happy about the solid ground under your feet that you KISS the ground you are standing on. You kiss it. That's how happy you are to be back on solid ground when you find it. ..We are people that are happy just to be walking on solid ground. One of the most common things I hear in meetings is "I'm just happy to be here. Happy to be sober today." That's being happy just about the ground underneath your feet. Gratitude is the other side of the same coin as hardship. There wouldn't be joy if it wasn't for pain. You wouldn't appreciate the sunshine if it wasn't for rain. During our struggles it's important to remember that moment when we realized our feet were back on solid ground. That moment we kissed the ground under our feet. I'm just now getting there and if you have been there awhile let me remind you how much different and amazing it feels. If you just started let me tell you the beginning gets better and your feet will be planted back underneath you once again. ..Normal people don't get to appreciate the ground they walk on like we do. We get to wake up every day and thank God that we woke up sober and have a fighting chance to face the day. We get to thank God that we get to go do things like hit a meeting go to work see people or just go for a walk. I got to play golf with my father yesterday if I had been drinking I would have made an excuse to not go. I'm happy to be sober today... and I'm especially happy that i was sober for fathers day. ..Thanks for reading.,1,8ry5xx,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8ry5xx/i_was_contemplating_gods_will_and_hardships_the/,14,2018-06-18T05:26:38
misdiagnosisxx1,Big Book sponsor part of MLM scheme "real" sponsor not helpful anymore,I have two sponsors. One is a sponsor in name only (I am probably just people pleasing by letting her remain my sponsor it's a long story I'm her first sponsee ever to stay sober more than a year and will soon complete the steps) who I speak with in person quite often and have come to see as more of a pet than a sponsor and one for Big Book study. Sponsor 1 does not use the big book whatsoever and has never read it. I felt like something was fundamentally missing from my program and brought it up to sponsor 1 a while ago; she asked me if I felt like drinking or using and I said no so she said to forget about it and continue with the steps the way she was taught...Sponsor 2 was my very first sponsor several years ago when I was struggling and failing to get and stay sober. She has recently begun bringing me through the Big Book as her sponsor brought her. I was having a really great time and learning a lot until a few weeks ago when I told her of some troubles at work not liking my job etc and she tried to get me involved in one of those crazy MLM pyramid schemes selling whatever the hell she's selling on her social media site. I unfollowed her a while ago because I couldn't deal with it. I told her I would not be taking her up on her offer and she has not contacted or responded to me since. ..What do? I guess she dropped me and I have someone who is willing to sponsor me if I have a chat with sponsor 1 about how I am feeling but I'm really torn. Sponsor 1 will be heartbroken if I stop doing work with her. I'm thinking of just sticking it out until I finish with 12 and then move on from there since I'm not really at risk of doing anything stupid but I do not feel like my program is up to par anymore. I'm completely stagnant and have been growing resentments like rotten tomatoes in my life. I think I'm just looking for an outside perspective on what the reasonable thing to do in this situation is. I would call my sponsor about it but......,1,8r7o3v,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8r7o3v/big_book_sponsor_part_of_mlm_scheme_real_sponsor/,15,2018-06-14T22:49:17
CaptainDeadpool_1,Expectations and resentments,I'm struggling a bit with this today:  I had someone for whom I've spent the last two years being a supporter and champion of even though she frankly didn't always deserve it elect to shit on me today in a way that isn't going to be recoverable.  It's not on me that she's a disaster but she's left me in a serious lurch and I'm feeling pretty down about it.  Guess I know what I'm going to be calling my sponsor about today!,1,8r2o63,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8r2o63/expectations_and_resentments/,5,2018-06-14T11:19:15
bulletsponge8,Hi! I'm Sponge and I'm an addict and alcoholic.,Hi I'm 5 months sober. I gave up drugs years ago but have been craving since I quit drinking. I haven't started to work steps mostly due to my own inability to be open and honest.  I go to one meeting week every Wednsday and the topics are always exactly what I need to hear. I'm on here now as a segue to better be honest with my struggles. I'm married with kids 31 years old and am trying to figure out how to live with out looking at the moments that lead me to the struggle I face today. The whole finding a sponsor thing amd going to more meetings is daunting for me my wife feels disconnected we've been married for 4 years now. Most of which i was drinking every night. She wants to connect emotionally but i dont know how the hell to do it sober...I see that this has turned into an unorganized rant.  I guess if anyone has any suggestions on balancing meetings amd family lmk.,1,8qy0ph,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8qy0ph/hi_im_sponge_and_im_an_addict_and_alcoholic/,8,2018-06-13T21:48:30
dietcokecandick,Struggling today...,So me and my girlfriend are both in recovery and for the past few months things have steadily declined between us. She has more time than me by about a year. And since we got together both of our programs have slipped. Now she is trying to put her program back first in her life and I feel like she never has time for me any more... just don't know what to do or how to  feel  kinda just venting. ,1,8qtcie,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8qtcie/struggling_today/,6,2018-06-13T11:33:30
shortyb2010,Working the Steps,Hello. I was in AA and sober for one year. I've been out for three years and back for a short time in the middle. I began struggling with the concept of a sponsor and working the steps. I feel that I benefited from going to the meetings. I enjoyed the social aspect of it and being around people that understood what I was going through. Once I quit going I drank socially but within a year I was back to if not worse than before AA. Does anyone feel like you can be successful in the program without working the steps? Thank you.,1,8p6k89,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8p6k89/working_the_steps/,16,2018-06-06T22:13:58
raechuul,Partner struggling,Hi all..I've been with my partner for four years now and it was made clear to me around a year in that he has a drinking problem. He's  high-functioning  if we can call it that. He never ever misses work even if he is sick or only got three hours of sleep. ..My problem is with the lying and hiding. He will tell me he's coming home at x time and then I won't hear from him until hours later when he stumbles home drunk. He says he only has had two or three beers over the course of the whole day... then how is he so wasted? It's obviously a lie. ..We've had so many issues in our relationship caused by his drinking and he was even fired from his last job because he was caught drinking on the job... the night before he swore to me he hadn't had anything and the next day he texts to apologize for lying and that he was fired from work from drinking bottles of wine on the clock. ..He works in a bar and all his coworkers and friends drink in fact the only activities they ever do when they hang out is drink... and most of his family enables him and will take him out to drink or pay for his habit. His brother even mentioned to me once that  his liver is shot  as a joke. ..I'm really tired of getting yelled at for my concerns fights over nothing being behind on bills because alcohol comes first... he is not the man I fell in love with. He doesn't take care of himself and it breaks my heart. We've had several conversations about his problem and he has admitted it but nothing ever gets resolved. ..Anything I can do before I just simply pack up my boxes? ..I'm 27 F and he will be 30 this year if it makes any difference. ..tldr my partner is a  high functioning  alcoholic and his problem has caused our relationship tons of turmoil. Anything else I can do before packing my bags? ,1,8p42cu,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8p42cu/partner_struggling/,4,2018-06-06T16:26:22
jalapenogoodgoodgood,"Dry Drunk" for almost 11 months. Need advice! (F/24),Hi I'm Sammy I'm an alcoholic.   .My last drink was 321 days ago but I'm struggling.. Not so much with my desire to drink but with my mental well being while sober. I can't seem to get into AA and I feel guilty. This past year I've been to maybe fifteen meetings or less. The only reason I've managed to stay sober this long without AA is because I've completely isolated myself. I only leave my room to go to work my crappy part time job and that doesn't even always happen. I spend every other minute alone in bed. I can't live like this. It's not working anymore and I know I need to change but I can't even get up. How can I overcome this? Please send anything my way! I'm desperate. Thanks ,1,8ogd54,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8ogd54/dry_drunk_for_almost_11_months_need_advice_f24/,39,2018-06-04T06:58:30
anderronshi,Twenty-Four Hours a Day: June 2,Thought for the Day...Some more things I do not miss since becoming dry: wondering if the car is in the garage and how I got home; struggling to remember where I was and what I did since my last conscious moment; trying to delay getting off to work and wondering how I will look when I get there; dreading the day ahead of me. I'm quite sure that I don't miss these things am I not?..Meditation for the Day...You cannot believe in God and keep your selfish ways. The old self shrivels up and dies and upon the re-born soul God's image becomes stamped. The gradual elimination of selfishness in the growth of love for God and your fellow human beings is the goal of life. At first you have only a faint likeness to the Divine but the picture grows and takes on more and more of the likeness of God until those who see you can see in you some of the power of God's grace at work in a human life...Prayer for the Day...I pray that I may develop that faint likeness I have to the Divine. I pray that others may see in me some of the power of God's grace at work.,1,8o0ttn,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8o0ttn/twentyfour_hours_a_day_june_2/,0,2018-06-02T10:19:52
charliecbc,I hate the world,Hi guys I've got 13 years sober in aa a girlfriend a job I'm in grad school a four sponsees lots of good stuff but I just see dead ends everywhere I look in life. I'm in an interracial relationship and I love her dearly but I struggle with feelings of racism. I also feel like in the current political climate and the dire direction our country is headed in that there's no way we can make it work in the long run and that our mixed child will just get bullied all the time. I'm angry at the left and at the right I'm just angry I feel like I could murder people and not feel bad about it. I feel like every day the news and social media just beat me over the head with more and more bad news and negativity. I'm in grad school to be a social worker and it's bullshit just one long course on how to be politically correct and I feel like I won't make enough money to live on either. I keep wanting to get my second wind at aa but I'm so bored with it I've heard everything they have to say. I had this awesome sponsor but he got murdered last year (case is unsolved too). Ever since then I've had a couple sponsors but nobody I really feel a connection with. I got on a good antidepressant and it's helped a lot but it's DESTROYED my sex drive. I just feel like the future has more misery in store for me than I can handle and it'd be better if I just blew my brains out now and got it over with. And yes you read that right I have 13 years sober. ,1,8nqgtx,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8nqgtx/i_hate_the_world/,12,2018-06-01T05:06:21
shanep3,This was a comment I made in a different sub but thought it might help all of us,Stopped drinking over a year ago and all things fitness related have been easier ever since...Edit: Life has been easier ever since. It's amazing the changes you see when you're sober. I struggled with alcohol for a long time. The first few months that I quit were tough very tough. I had a seizure from alcohol withdrawal. After about the 3rd month I started to really feel like my old self. I was happy in the morning which was something I hadn't experienced in years. The best part about recovery is the fact that my depression and anxiety slowly started to disappear. Not only do I not take any meds but I don't even google search depression symptoms anymore. If there is ever any advice I can give to someone trying to live sober DON'T GIVE IN. Work at it everyday and I promise you it will get easier.,1,8ndw6v,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8ndw6v/this_was_a_comment_i_made_in_a_different_sub_but/,5,2018-05-30T21:05:13
CallieHere,You guys helped me,A while back I posted about my struggles with anxiety. You guys made suggestions and I am following them. I'm getting a sponsor to work the steps on the unmanageability of my life at this time. Just wanted to say thanks,1,8n7nys,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8n7nys/you_guys_helped_me/,16,2018-05-30T07:03:19
protectstephen,Good resource online to download speaker tapes? Preferably YPAA/Funny speakers.,Hey guys the title of this post kinda tells you what I'm posting for. Forgive me please if this is a question asked a lot I'm new to this sub and I've been struggling recently. I need to listen to someone else's experience strength and hope as much as I can. Podcasts recs are also accepted. Thanks! :\),1,8mvc4d,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8mvc4d/good_resource_online_to_download_speaker_tapes/,4,2018-05-28T21:59:06
ticknahoes,Why is everyone in AA old?,I am 30 years old and am struggling with alcoholism. I keep going to meetings but I can't find anyone to relate to. No offense to older people. How is there hope for me if no one my age is sober?,6,8mu52o,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8mu52o/why_is_everyone_in_aa_old/,50,2018-05-28T18:53:44
greasybirdfeeder,Having trouble today.....,I'm having trouble with cravings today. I'm by no means clean of alcohol. I was doing well until I went to a music festival and decided to almost drink myself to death and if my girlfriend hadn't been there to turn me over I might not be here after that day I've been struggling every day the cravings in the morning just get worse as the night goes on and if I continue to drink I'll lose everything. It just so happens when I get even a little buzzed this sets off a chain reaction that starts making me loath and then anger follows along with projecting that anger on people close to me. ..Anyway you've all probably heard all this a million times. Just thought I should try to talk a little because right now I have nobody to confide in.,1,8lv09u,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8lv09u/having_trouble_today/,8,2018-05-24T14:36:20
FrenchFryNinja,Daily Reflection May 24,"HAPPY JOYOUS AND FREE"..We are sure God wants us to be happy joyous and free. We cannot subscribe to the belief that this life is a vale of tears though it once was just that for many of us. But it is clear that we made our own misery. God didn't do it. Avoid then the deliberate manufacture of misery but if trouble comes cheerfully capitalize it as an opportunity to demonstrate His omnipotence...  ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS p. 133..For years I believed in a punishing God and blamed Him for my misery. I have learned that I must lay down the "weapons" of self in order to pick up the "tools" of the A.A. program. I do not struggle with the program because it is a gift and I have never struggled when receiving a gift. If I sometimes keep on struggling it is because I'm still hanging onto my old ideas and ". . . the results are nil."..,1,8lrw5b,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8lrw5b/daily_reflection_may_24/,0,2018-05-24T07:28:51
fresk0,Today marks 90 day sobriety from alcohol. Last month I posted my 60 days and I honestly didn't think I could make it here. But thank God I did. I encourage everyone who struggles that you CAN do it.,,1,8loxjg,https://i.redd.it/ehy13048mpz01.jpg,10,2018-05-23T21:51:44
garbage_person_,Trying to get over meeting anxiety,Over the summer I found a great young people's group that met twice a week. It helped me to achieve a month sober longer than I've had in years...Then I moved. Since moving I haven't gone to a single meeting and I've been struggling on my own. I've had several small relapses and I've decided I need to start going back...But there's the problem. There's no big AA community here like I used to have. Meetings seem somewhat scarce and from what I've heard around town a lot of the meetings posted online are inactive or don't meet...I found a meeting I'm trying to convince myself to go to but I'm nervous about going. It's a ways away from me so I don't want to drive all the way there only to find that they aren't meeting or worse that I don't fit with the group and I'm back to square one...I know it's dumb but I very much feel like the new kid at school. I've overcome these nerves before but I'm having a harder time this time around for some reason.,1,8lkycr,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8lkycr/trying_to_get_over_meeting_anxiety/,8,2018-05-23T12:56:53
Seasiderunner02066,5 years sober and want to die.,I've been sober 5 years and I'm active in AA. When I was drinking my goal was to drink myself to death by 40.  I didn't have the courage to kill myself so drinking myself to death was the best option.  I wanted my wife to have a better husband and my kids to have a better father.  I'm now about 40 days away from my 40th Birthday and I am screwed up.  I just keep thinking I'm not good enough and a loser.  I think even though I'm sober I should still die by 40.  I'm not rich enough good looking enough and still struggle with low self esteem.  I can't tell anyone how I feel.  I'm just lost and wish I would have done so many things different.  ,1,8l8u6v,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8l8u6v/5_years_sober_and_want_to_die/,45,2018-05-22T06:03:37
jeremiah2911-,Thoughts from the beach,I type this sitting on a beautiful beach in an amazing place with my wife. The last two years have been a real struggle for me. I haven't been able to make it past 5 months. I had four years before but this has been a fight...Like I said I'm on vacation and have no no thoughts or ideas of using or drinking for the past 4 1/2 months. Over the last couple days I've felt rocky again. I've been going to meetings every day and it has been helping me get through it. I am determined to not give up. I can't keep doing this in and out shit. ..My brain keeps telling me that I can smoke weed but I know where it leads every time. Cunning baffling powerful and patient. That's how my addiction works. ..I guess this is more of a check in than anything. Greatly appreciated..I love this sub and appreciate all of you it always helps to realize that I am not alone even on my tough days...Love and Light to all of you           ,1,8l5vpd,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8l5vpd/thoughts_from_the_beach/,5,2018-05-21T20:58:26
Alohabish,Today is day two of my journey on becoming sober.,I started drinking about a year and a half ago when I moved from Maui to the mainland to pursue a divorce from my husband of 12 years. I came back to the mainland ecstatic and ready to live shortly after moving to the mainland I broke my wrist and had to have surgery with a plate and screws this was especially devastating since I'm a massage therapist. It started slowly where I use the double each evening to wind down and decompress. I was a full-time student a mother and eventually went back to work as a full-time massage therapist and had a lot on my plate I avoided processing my divorce  but slowly the insecurities that I began to feel for my divorce start up past pains from childhood trauma which I thought I had worked through. Eventually it turned into three beers and evening most nights of the week after my kiddo went to bed. I maintained my job and my social life I got all A's in school but I didn't slow down and I used avoidance as a way to deal with my problems I buried my head in books and school work and focus on my clients at work. I went to school for six straight terms and managed to get straight A's but my drinking problem became more of an issue were three beers a night turned into starting and not knowing how to stop until eventually I found myself struggling to get through the next day because I felt hung over. Over the course of a year and a half I gained over 50 pounds and began to feel sick all the time with what I thought was allergies. After doing a lot of research I realized that I'm destroying my gut health with alcohol and it creates a porous gut environment for you to develop food allergies to things like wheat and dairy causing your immune system to attack foods you normally be able to process. My alcohol consumption also started affecting my billet he to deal with allergens in the air. In order to cope I've had to take allergy medicine every single day and try to replenish my system with as many multivitamins and probiotics as possible yet still feeling sick fatigued and depressed all the time.  I used to view the idea of giving up alcohol is giving up joy in my life that I was giving something away and that I may not be able to enjoy the same social events or to be able to sleep in the evening but now I've come to realize that The only way to get my joy and motivation back for life is to give up alcohol. Something that used to bring a little extra joy to my life has now sucked every bit of joy from it. I've gone to counselors and therapists and reached out for help to have them turned me away and tell me I am not an alcoholic but that I am dealing with PTSD and maybe that's the case maybe that's why am struggling with using alcohol as a sedative for PTSD but either way I felt like the practitioners are not giving me the help that I need and are not taking me seriously when I say that I am struggling to not drink at the end of the night. I've actually had physical sensations in the evening when trying not to drink feelings feel very similar to when you give up sugar or quit nicotine. I don't shake or feel like I need a drink to get through the day but I can't sleep at night without it and I found myself dealing with terrible dreams when I'm sober at night. Alcohol made it possible for me to sleep through the night but without it I find myself waking up every two hours. I think there's many different levels of alcoholism many that maybe doctors don't recognize or diagnose. I do not drink during the day I don't have any desire to do so and I definitely don't need a drink in the morning and in fact have never drink in the morning so sometimes I wonder if I even belong in this community. ..My parents were addicts growing up. Instead of alcohol that used heroin. I watch them go through so much pain and with draws and grief and shame they were arrested several times over the years and eventually I went into foster care and bounced around from home to home for years this is very Trumatic experience for me along with other experiences that I care not to mention here. I feel ashamed because my life goal has always to never be like them even though I love them dearly. Eventually their addiction took both of their lives when I was 12 years old my father was hit by train while intoxicated in a few years later my mother died from what I suspected to be suicide. I don't with a lot of emotional trauma because of that and I worked for a lot of it became a very successful adult. So upon going through divorce I found myself unable to cope with my emotions and walked into a very dangerous pattern which I knew or at least I thought I knew how to avoid I know all the right things to do in order to take care of your mental and physical health but slowly almost in perceivably I let it all slip away for me until I was out of control. I'd make up silly excuses after being clean for a few days that I will just have two beers and no more every attempt to do that has failed or make another excuse that I'm only using a few beers to go to sleep at night and that will be the end of it but then I'll find myself doing it again the next evening. ..I think the emotional trauma of losing somebody that I have loved dearly for 12 years who is been my best friend start up so many feelings of insecurity because I lived with him longer than I lived with anybody else in my life and he's been a security to me it's stirred up so many feelings of abandonment and fear of being alone that I didn't know how to process the feelings even though I'm the one that chose to end the relationship. I'm not sure if any of you have dealt with this type of problem before if I even belong in this community but I would love to get some ideas on how any of you got through your cravings because my cravings come usually around six or 7 o'clock at night even though I've told myself all day then I'm going to be strong and I feel strong and I don't have any desire to drink at all until it starts to get dark,1,8l48zj,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8l48zj/today_is_day_two_of_my_journey_on_becoming_sober/,11,2018-05-21T17:01:43
FrenchFryNinja,[Question] People who've started a family in Sobriety - how did you keep up with meetings etc?,I have small kids. Had the first one when I was a little over a year sober. I am forever grateful for my family my loving wife because I've seen so many families fall apart in early sobriety or at the end of the drinking days. It is really only through grace that mine is together...Since having kids I've had a lot of trouble striking a balance between attending meetings and being an engaged father. Being a father is no part time job and it was my full time job for a while \(stay at home dad\). These days I'm lucky if I get to 3 meetings a week. The average is closer to 1.5 or 2. It has been like this since I was 56 days sober when I moved and there were only 2 available. I've been sober since June 6 2013 have worked the steps. Had a few sponsors \(new one every time I've moved\) I've been able to take someone through the steps \(had multiple people start and not finish\) and I feel like my life is quite good. I'm grateful every day for the life this program has given me. But I just can't get to meetings as often as I'd like to. All the one's people tell me I should go to are during my kid's bedtimes. Now I live somewhere that there are others that I can go to. They are late and I go on days that I need to get in some extra contact with AAs which means that someone might recognize me but I don't know people there. ..I have a home group I don't miss and a sponsor. My sponsor hasn't had kids so I was hoping to get some ESH \(experience strength and hope\) from those who've started/kept a family in sobriety...So here's my question: To those who have had families in sobriety what happened to your meeting schedules when your kids were young \(ages 1 and 3\)? What did you do? Did you find you had less time to give to AA? How do you balance the needs of the gifts of the program with continuing work in the program? What did you struggle with? What was it like? What happened? What is it like now?,1,8jo9j1,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8jo9j1/question_people_whove_started_a_family_in/,5,2018-05-15T15:12:00
TimeCell24,11 years sober today!!!!,Boy am i cheesing today! I've had a shitty day at work BUT I cant believe I have been able to stay sober this long! It is truly a gift that I'm proud to have for 24 hours at a time...I am STILL learning patience and tolerance the hard way but no matter what I dont drink! I've had periods of daily meetings periods of no meetings. Times when I did service 24/7 and not a lick of it- I dont do this perfectly I just don't drink (and try my best not to be an asshole)...The biggest thing I hold on to is that no matter how bad I'm feeling or what I'm suffering through there is another alcoholic who stayed sober through something similar or sometimes worse. They stayed sober to share the experience that it's truly possible to get through ANYTHING and not drink and I mean ANYTHING!..Also for anyone young and struggling- I got sober in college and it is 100% possible to survive your 20s (or any age) stone cold sober and have relationships jobs misadventures travel make mistakes and have victories. It's never too early and it's NEVER too late...Keep trudging and thank you all for being a part of my sobriety today and every day before!,1,8jnka3,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8jnka3/11_years_sober_today/,9,2018-05-15T13:46:20
oanarthur,drank last night...,without going into a whole bunch of back story i am fairly new into the sober world and AA.  and last night after many many days of that fire slowly building inside me i went out and bought some beer and drank them last night.  that gave me no wonderful pleasure it ceased to enhance my evening in anyway and knowing the later impacts beforehand i did so anyway.  i am not sitting here regretting the choice i just am so blown away about why i get this burning obsession to turn to booze when i know full well there is no good to come of it.  i hear in the meetings that one needs to WORK the program but i guess i don't understand what that work really is?  reading more AA literature?  i will admit i am struggling with a higher-power.  anyway i just don't understand why there is this obsession for me to drink when nothing good comes of it and i don't even really enjoy it anymore.   thankfully i didn't get too out of control as what used to happen and i didn't fall into a pit of anger and resentment and argumentativeness last night i just drank my beer and went to bed.  but still i don't want to drink anymore truly.  i admit that i am powerless over alcohol and my life becomes unmanageable when i do drink.  i don't know.  anyway i will get back to my meetings and try to figure all of this out one way or another as i deeply want this obsession for booze to find it's place outta my mind once and for all.  .,1,8jndh2,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8jndh2/drank_last_night/,26,2018-05-15T13:22:39
purplepickles82,I need advice,First time post in this forum...long story short I've struggled for a few years with emotions and alcohol.  I lost my whole family one by one from 25-29.  So my support is pretty much nil.  I decided exactly a year ago today to do in patient rehab for alcohol and coke.  Well a year out I am much better but have indulged a few times.  I no longer feel that guilt the day after I reason with myself because of progress...if that makes sense.  Can I ask how you found ur home groups?  I'm a single mother no family no support who doesn't want to go back to the dark side.  I don't agree w all of the aa god stuff but I have seen it's results and there isn't much smart recovery in my area.  From what I have read that's  iffy .  Can anyone relate?  I'm in Bergen county nj.  Can anyone recommend anything?  As always thanks to the reddit community it always has a great heart!  ,1,8j71g2,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8j71g2/i_need_advice/,17,2018-05-13T17:14:33
MauveMistress,Met potential sponsor she tells me to call every day I don't hear back?,I've been sober for over 8 months now but have recently decided to give AA a chance because I don't think I can do this on my own. I've been going to meetings for about 3 weeks now so my knowledge of the program is pretty elementary. I just picked up a Big Book last week and I think I've found a home group but I'm struggling to find a sponsor. ..I approached a woman last week after a meeting who raised her hand offering sponsorship at the end of the meeting. She gave me some instructions to follow including calling her every day or at least texting her when I was busy and made plans to sit down to talk the following Wednesday. I've done everything she's asked the meditation prayers reading and I've even called every day except Friday and today when I had work and family in town but texted her to give her the lowdown of what was going on. However this woman has only called me back once. I really appreciated the talk we had but I'm a little confused as to why she's telling me to call her every day and I don't hear back. I've even texted asking if she still wants me to call every day but no response. We're supposed to meet tomorrow but I still haven't heard from her even after texting trying to confirm plans...Is there something I'm not getting? Is this like a Jedi mind trick? Am I supposed to keep calling without a response? Is this another unspoken rule in the program? I usually follow rules to a T and I try to avoid miscommunication so I'm at a loss here. I really just want to get to know someone who can walk me through the program. I don't even fully understand the steps or what I should be doing in the first few weeks. Should I keep pressing or try for another sponsor? ,1,8i27x2,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8i27x2/met_potential_sponsor_she_tells_me_to_call_every/,13,2018-05-08T21:40:05
gerbils_everywhere,43 days sober and struggling,Hello all this is my first post here. As the title says I am 43 days sober today after 6 years of problem drinking (2 of which I was alcohol dependent). I started going to AA meetings 6 weeks ago but I am really struggling to stay sober today - it seems to be getting harder not easier as I naively thought..I began drinking to help escape difficult emotions and have been offered therapy to start soon which I am hopeful about although have been in and out of therapy for the last 12 years. I am worried that a relapse will decrease the efficacy of therapy and worried I won't be able to stop again but right now I am simply not coping with my emotions at all..Sorry for the rambling my head is all over the place. Any thoughts very much appreciated.,1,8hweo5,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8hweo5/43_days_sober_and_struggling/,17,2018-05-08T08:48:02
biblicalunicorn,Frustrated with non-alcoholic partner,I'm now in my third year of sobriety. I met my current partner when I was in relapse and was that way for about six months. He was the primary voice that pointed out I had a drinking problem and needed help. I realized this was the truth and I sought sobriety. ..I had attempts before but never anything like this. For the first time in my life I got a sponsor that I stuck with and I worked all my steps. I moved in later to a sponsor with 39 years of sobriety and I am working my steps again. And my life began to radically change. ..I know you all know what I mean... I had lost complete custody of my two young children and I now have 50/50 joint custody with my ex-husband. I once hated my ex-husband and now we have a supportive friendship in raising our girls. I went from a dump of an apartment in a bad area to now having a three bedroom apartment in a decent area. I am finishing my master's degree in education to become a teacher. I have relationships with my family again. My parents tell me I am at the best place I've ever been in my life that they feel like they have their sweet girl back that I once was before the drinking and using. I work with others I have a Homegroup where I was once isolated and resentful I am now a friend a sister a mother. I belong to a church and have a thriving relationship with the God of my understanding. I even embrace the concept of sexual abstinence before marriage as the right path for me. I have changed my entire life and continue to strive for more change. ...But I am not perfect. I have not graduated from AA. I am still recovering in layers. It has recently come to light in my relationship that a defect of mine to sometimes launch into explosive rages and say terrible things has to be addressed. I am willing to accept responsibility for this defect to seek outside help for it in therapy and have made an appointment with a therapist that I'll be paying a hefty amount out of pocket for as I'm currently uninsured. When I see that I am wrong I promptly admit it and I seek to take prayerful action to resolve it. This is the best I can do and I try to do my best. ..My partner a long time ago tried about three al-anon meetings and decided he didn't want to work the program. He has gone to celebrate recovery a handful of times. So this has left me feeling for a long time like we are missing out on the benefits of working a tandem program together and growing together in recovery. I feel like I am doing all the work I need to do on my program and he has no program nor anything like real understanding of what my recovery means. ..This brings us to the issue I'm currently facing. I can behave very badly when I get angry and we have conflict. I am ashamed of this. I struggle with feeling hopeless and horrible. Instead of giving in to these feelings I chose to get into action to address the issue and to try to place my hope in that. Because I know I can't afford to entertain those negative emotions; it's like getting sucked into a black void and if I really believe I am hopeless then that desire to drink could swiftly follow. I've picked myself up admitted I'm wrong sought to address the wrong. I see it as just another layer in my recovery. I've faced everything else I've already faced so I can now face this. My experience tells me I am not hopeless. ..But it is hard right now having a partner with no program no al-anon no sponsor. On my good days when I  behaving in good ways he is sure about me wants a future with me. We were just out looking at houses together this past week. But when I have a bad day and I behave badly...he said something rude and hateful to me and after about three or four hours of being in control of my emotions as his comment went unresolved I finally blew up at him and swore at him in anger and frustration... he changes his mind. He is uncertain. He is confused and afraid. He doesn't want to spend his life with a hateful person. ..I calmly explained to him how I felt... that I was sorry for this part of me that it was my responsibility that I had taken the steps to begin to work on it...but his lack of faith in me in us his complete absence of a program or a sponsor his resistance to even being willing to participate in therapy with me to support and understand and to look at himself.... is just awful. He is demanding sympathy and compassion from me for what I've put him through and continue to put him through. And I've apologized taken responsibility and taken action...it's dangerous for me to wallow and grovel and despair in how bad I am and lament how terribly I've hurt him like he wants. I get it I do...but all I can do is move forward. ..He says he doesn't understand my recovery my issues. I'm like if you don't read the book come to class and study  you will fail the test. He claims that this anger issue has been around for a long time (and it has) and he's told me to deal with it for a long time now and it has nothing to do with my recovery from alcoholism. I've tried to explain that everything in my life is a part of my recovery from alcoholism and I've worked hard for going on three years now to clear up so much wreckage of my past that I'm just now getting to the point of being able to face and address it because I've been working my way to it through a lot of other things. ..But he doesn't understand because he won't go to al-anon and work the steps and get a sponsor. He doesn't understand because to him it's my job to recover not our job to recover together. I am doing everything every day to the best of my ability to strive for sobriety on every level. I'm not perfect but I never stop striving and being responsible. I feel that this is my part. And I don't know how to attend this pity party he is throwing for himself because getting into that despair and hopelessness that he's all about right now is dangerous for me. I have to keep moving; I cannot sink. And I don't know what to do about him. ,1,8hw7v5,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8hw7v5/frustrated_with_nonalcoholic_partner/,19,2018-05-08T08:17:21
brilee26,Need Advice w/ Intervention,Here's the gist of it...my boyfriend has struggled with alcohol fairly consistently for the past year (he's 30). In January of this year his family had enough and told him if he didn't go to rehab they were choosing to disconnect from him. He obliged but I feel it was only because he didn't want to lose them. He completed a 30-day rehab during the beginning of this year and things were good for a couple of months. ..Fast forward to April of this year...I found he had Kratom and Phenibut that he said he was using to help keep him away from alcohol. I believe he has been abusing both of these substances and this past week found a bottle of vodka...Here's my question--his family and myself have had enough and it's getting to the point that this is dangerous. Before he went to rehab he was hospitalized with a BAC of .37. If it gets back to that point there's no telling what could happen. I am thinking of confronting him and then leaving until he decides to get serious about being sober. His family has written letters to him (they're in a different state) which will be presented to him in a couple of days. Is it too much to pull everything out from under him at once i.e. family and myself (we've been together 6 years) or should I just leave first and then if he still doesn't get help bring his family in?,1,8h9nv3,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8h9nv3/need_advice_w_intervention/,11,2018-05-05T15:11:09
JenReadsInTheDell,Struggling,Am currently sitting outside the grocery store in my car. I need to go in to get laundry soap but I'm worried that once I'm in the store I'll head straight for the liquor aisle. This is only my 2nd day without a drink. Feel like a loser for it being this hard :(,1,8gs9ac,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8gs9ac/struggling/,29,2018-05-03T13:45:29
puppydoggies,How do I best support my boyfriend?,My boyfriend and I have been dating for almost two years. We for sure have our issues and are working through them. We have a fairly "healthy" relationship but we both struggle with our own issues..My boyfriend has a serious drinking problem. I also struggled with alcohol and I've had to pull myself up on my own. He didn't want to take part in my recovery. ..He hasn't gotten into trouble with the law since we've been together and has seemed to get off fairly easy from past law run-ins. He has had a couple of slaps on the wrist but has a drinking problem and will admit it. He has been going to outpatient treatment for about three months now. He goes four nights per week and we go to a recovery relationships class together with his parents on the weekend. He has not been driving for seven months now because he can't be trusted to drive. He is a 27 year old who got their vehicle taken away from them by their parents. I know it's sad but they didn't know what to do. He was at a point that he would have killed someone. His drinking was/ is out of control....He came around to admitting that the drinking was out of his control. He seemed to be doing well but not necessarily applying himself. He was able to stay sober for over a month. Now he has relapsed several times within the past week. I know that this is something that he needs to do and all that I can really do is support him....I have been sober for almost a year. We are fairly active people so when we are together we do things outside and we don't make everything about the sobriety. I know that it is hard for him because he isn't spending time with friends and he is embarrassed to tell people about his sobriety. I am trying to stay supportive without nagging him but I know that I can be controlling and rude at times. I'm not perfect but I try to treat him with respect....Tonight he relapsed.. again. He called me and was yelling about his parents talking about hurting himself and saying that people only care about him if he is sober. I am struggling to know what to do. I notified his parents about his words about hurting himself. I don't take that as a joke. I know that he is disappointed in himself. We are all disappointed in him...He continues to blame his brain chemicals and keeps saying that he doesn't have a choice and it's not as easy as I make it sound. I agree that the addiction is more than a choice but at some point isn't it a choice? Once you fall hard enough don't you choose which path you go down? I feel like him continuing to say that it is an addiction and brain chemicals is a way for him to pass off responsibility. I'm not arguing that he is wrong but we do end up arguing because we both see the journey differently. ..What else can I do to help him on this journey? Each person's recovery is different. What has worked for him either doesn't work for him or he isn't willing to try. I'm wondering if anyone else has some input....TL;DR- My boyfriend has a drinking problem and is going to treatment. He has relapsed again and I'm wondering if there is something more that I can be doing to help him. Does anyone have a recovery story or something that has helped them?,1,8gm53k,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8gm53k/how_do_i_best_support_my_boyfriend/,0,2018-05-02T20:06:41
momdi2016,Macomb IL,Anyone in Macomb Illinois that could meet up and chat with me tonight? I have nowhere to go right now and I'm struggling quite a bit.,1,8glmlc,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8glmlc/macomb_il/,0,2018-05-02T18:48:15
ratsocks,Does AA help people that have some sobriety behind them already?,I haven't had a drink in almost a year but have been struggling with loneliness and anxiety. My social life has deteriorated to almost nothing and I need some people to talk to more often. I already spend hundreds of dollars each month on therapy but what I really need are sober friends. ..Will AA help with these issues? Would it be strange to go to my first meeting after a year sober? Would other members believe me or think I'm lying? I've been putting off going to a meeting for months due to anxiety/fear. ..,1,8getya,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8getya/does_aa_help_people_that_have_some_sobriety/,2,2018-05-02T00:49:39
momdi2016,I just found out I'm pregnant..,I'm not even sure how I got here but I've been drinking daily for months now. My husband and I have been trying to get pregnant for 3 and 1/2 years and struggled with unexplained infertility. I'm kind of freaking out because I'm having to quit completely cold turkey instead of just cutting back bit by bit and I'm also scared because I know how heavily I've been drinking the past month. I'm also a heavy weed smoker and so not having either crutch is going to be really rough. Do you guys have any suggestions or advice for dealing with withdrawals and all of the shittiness that I'm going to go through over the next couple of weeks?,1,8gc244,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8gc244/i_just_found_out_im_pregnant/,0,2018-05-01T17:25:13
BeenToTexasTwice,Not so amused skepticism,I just got 4 months. This is the most i've ever put forth towards the program. First fourth/fifth step first time making amends having a home group w a service position. I honestly think I am the best me I have ever been and can see a happy future of sobriety working for me. Something i've been struggling with lately is questioning the authenticity of the people in the rooms. Something that was very enticing to me initially was how accepting and willing to help the people in the program were. Now that I'm a few months in and have gotten to know the people I looked up to when I came in I can't help but to notice that the traits that attracted to me are turning into kind of a hollow facade. I don't know if people are my friend for me or for their own recovery. I understand we are all sick so I try not to be so cynical and judgmental. I just really want this to last and authentic interpersonal relationships mean a lot to me so I can't help but to worry about things like this. Luckily this is an issue that i'm positive drinking/using wont fix. Just wanted to vent to people outside of the fellowship in my area. I am nothing but grateful for the program!!!!,1,8g147j,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8g147j/not_so_amused_skepticism/,0,2018-04-30T13:17:04
AmmoniaBologna,I have my first AA meeting this friday and knowing that has made me the happiest I've felt in a long time.,I've struggled with alcohol and drug addiction for several years and lately I've noticed myself drinking more and more. This morning I woke up still drunk feeling aweful and ashamed of myself. I am going to an AA meeting this friday instead of drinking and as the title said it's already made me feel a million times better. Knowing that I'm taking action to fight my addiction has filled me with relief. Just wanted to share.,1,8fv6il,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8fv6il/i_have_my_first_aa_meeting_this_friday_and/,0,2018-04-29T19:19:49
Breezy834,I don't like  Big Book Thumpers' they constantly spout lines from the big book. And they think they know everytihng,Was at a meetizng a girl was crying because she was struggling with some issues. A big book thumper shared something like  you shouldn't share the mess at the meeting you should only share the solution. I felt so mad at that guy and sad for the girl. These big book thumpers use the book as a weapon and constanlty quote pages and have no humility...These big book thumpers constantly put down other members who do the slow and put down members who Do things a little differently...Can anyone relate? ,2,8f6r64,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8f6r64/i_dont_like_big_book_thumpers_they_constantly/,70,2018-04-26T18:27:03
RedshedTSD,Help with My Bachelor party,Hey everyone I am having my bachelor party next week and inviting my two brothers and friends from high school college and friends I've made along the way. All great people and all very respectful....Here's where I need any advice possible. My little brother recently got his two year chip and I couldn't be a prouder big brother. He's had his struggles and I've been there as much as I can for him and as much as he wants me to. He's made incredible progress and has really turned his life around. Now everyone at my party is all in their thirties half have kids and/or are having kids soon. None of us really want to have 3 days worth of hangovers and I don't feel like closing the bars out every night. But we are going to of course have alcohol in the house and party. Is there anything I can do/provide that anyone thinks will make my little brother's experience easier on him? I hate that he's in a situation where temptation will be all around but I've already sent word out to friends to not offer and not push the idea of getting him to drink. I know he's an adult and he's got to do it on his own but I just want him to have a good time. He drinks coffee/rockstars like a fish but he has a minor heart issue and should really shouldn't be having that much caffeine oh and a smoker. Anyway if anyone has any idea on how to help make this a great experience for him let me know. I will appreciate any feedback! I've posted in the AlAnon subreddit as well. ,1,8ewsdr,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8ewsdr/help_with_my_bachelor_party/,21,2018-04-25T16:25:50
cittatva,My first post here,I'm 38 been a pretty regular drinker for almost 20 years just been gradually more and more.  Lately I'd been drinking a 6-pack of good IPA just about every night.  I was handing my business doing good at work keeping up with house chores and taking care of the kids.  When I got home from work I'd make dinner put the kids to bed then spend the night drinking and chain smoking outside and binge watching sci-fi tv on my laptop.  It wasn't good.  My doc was getting on to me about my cholesterol and weight.  My wife was frustrated that I wasn't spending time with her.  She said I was grumpy when I wasn't drinking then Mr. Cheerful after a couple beers.  .A couple weeks ago I was 6-deep and my wife was out with her friends.  I got in the shower and was feeling frustrated with a lack of intimacy in our relationship started singing a stupid song about how I was bored and sad and lonely.  There are some issues my wife and I need to work out along those lines but that' s not the point here.  The point?  How'd I get to my realization that I had a problem?  Guess who was drunk and not paying attention to the time and guess who came home and heard me singing about how bored and frustrated I was.  Crap.  She was understandably really hurt.  I was horrified -- my bitching was me working my feelings out not meant for anyone but me.  Skipping the details of our talking that night she took it reasonably well and seems basically okay after a couple days and it got me really reflecting on the impact drinking has had on my life and the people around me besides just my health.  I've had a few long-term relationships that were pretty good in their own ways and looking back ended because I was drinking too much.  I chose my friends in college and at work based on who I liked to drink with -- they're all long-gone since I got married and had kids.  I had some old friends from my childhood that I had stayed close with until my 20's until drunkenly I did some things that hurt them.  I've screwed up some good things by drinking too much and before a couple weeks ago I couldn't admit it to myself.  I'd say "yeah I drank too much that time but I don't have a problem.  I'm not an alcoholic.  It's not like I'm drinking a bottle of whiskey"  .I still hate the word "alcoholic".  "Alcoholic is an adjective to describe a beverage and I'm not a beverage."  I do recognize however that I really like beer and I tend to not stop after one or two.  After 3 or 4 I'm probably not going to stop until I'm good and drunk... and that's not good. .So for my wife for my kids for myself and not making such as ass of myself hopefully I'm 14 days 15 hours 37 minutes sober.   It's hard.  I'm struggling with jealousy towards other people who are drinking.  I'm resentful towards myself that I haven't controlled my drinking so that I can't just enjoy a beer or two with friends.  I'm mentally tired from trying to keep myself busy and finding things to do with my time.  I haven't slept well in two weeks.  It's really hard but I know it's something I need to do and I'm getting better..,2,8e1hz2,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8e1hz2/my_first_post_here/,9,2018-04-22T02:03:20
saigebrean,Making the commitment.,I've been struggling on and off over the years with drinking and quitting for months at a time - longest was a year and a half. I was attending AA at that time although I never really participated fully. Today I had enough of being scared- I went into a meeting today and raised my hand and asked for the sponsors to raise their hand. I found a sponsor today and I'm ready to work the steps but I am very nervous about it. ,2,8e1a1j,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8e1a1j/making_the_commitment/,2,2018-04-22T01:11:52
shittyswampdonkey,To meeting or not to meeting?,This is something I struggle with on occasions. I have a year and a half sober and attend meetings regularly (Mondays Thursdays Fridays and Saturdays). I've always heard that if you're wondering if you should go to meeting or not you need to go. However sometimes (like today) I'm feeling RID and cranky and I honestly just want to spend the evening at home relaxing with my cat and a book. With it being Thursday I usually would go to a meeting but I went to one last night to watch a friend speak. ..I do tend to  burn out  on meetings if I go to too many in a week (like sometimes I'll do two on Saturday or one every day if I have friends celebrating birthdays at their home groups). I am heavily involved in YPAA and this Sunday is one of our business meetings so I feel like this week is chock full of AA already. ..When you're feeling crappy how do you make the call between needing a meeting or needing an evening of alone time at home?,1,8djswm,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8djswm/to_meeting_or_not_to_meeting/,3,2018-04-19T21:08:38
strugglingtokeepsane,Advice any help,Sorry for the long rant post I'm lost any advice please ...Unfortunately I don't know what to do my wife is an alcoholic had a situation 13 yrs ago where she drove drunk didn't get caught ruined a car(blew the engine) prior to that was in rehab 10 yes or so before that.  Had been sober for up to 3 yrs ago and slowly started drinking during stressful times etc typical life stress money education etc.  now the last 2 yrs 3 months she started sneaking it wasn't sure but he last two years definitely she is full blown 6-18 beers a day will stop every once in a while when comforted by myself and children. But then she denies refuses etc but she has gotten so nasty violent etc I'm to the point I don't care if she does or not she makes shit up says the meanest untrue shit to our children and to me.  Has no filter etc when she drinks she has even drove our kids buzzed before I need help financially I'm lost no family nearby to help me out if I divorce she refuses to go to counseling or help or rehab refuses to tell her parents threatens kids if I let her parents or they tell them .This state is such a small area  too many people talk and can't keep their noses out of other peoples business  I'm afraid to say anything it will affect her job and definitely affect my kids lives here.I don't know what else to do I really am trying to avoid a domestic as it will probably ruin me more than her for some reason males are treated poorly and shunned when they ask for help with spouse who is alcoholic ,1,8dar2o,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8dar2o/advice_any_help/,4,2018-04-18T20:52:36
mynameisnotwhitney,helping people you don't like,there aren't many people i don't like really. but there are just a few members who really make my blood boil and i have a hard time just letting it go...any tips with this? they call me and i really struggle with answering sometimes.,2,8d2l3p,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8d2l3p/helping_people_you_dont_like/,15,2018-04-17T23:21:15
chiefsdelaval,Surrendering, Hi Reddit I'm fairly new here and am seeking some sage advice. So a little bit about myself  ( excuse my grammar)- I have recently quit using all substances and am 95 days sober. I have been a serious poly user for about 8 years with benzos and coke being my DOC. I moved from the midwest to SoCal in January to seek help to get off the benzos for good (first time attempting to after 6 years prescribed 4mg a day) and am in sober living now after completing rehab. The entire time in rehab I have been plotting my potential relapse with beer. I've used my reason for coming to rehab (benzos) as an excuse to drink again because I don't intend on using narcotics ever again. I've voiced this desire and quickly learned to shut my mouth about it because  the affirmation  I've been seeking has been shut down immediately by the fellowshipwhich. I tell myself  "I'm not that bad of an alchy"  and "I'm an IPA conneseur" so I don't fit the mold. The evidence  of alcoholism speaks through my past though and this frame of thinking. I'm really struggling with completely surrendering and letting go of this reservation.  I know deep inside I will gain serenity through surrendering and working the steps but the thought of never drinking again is frightening.  I need to quit thinking like this and take it one day at a time.   Has anybody else on here struggled with this issue with some tips? Thanks...,1,8cpwcq,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8cpwcq/surrendering/,7,2018-04-16T14:41:19
Guggenmarsh,IS AA suitable for a committed atheist?,I think I've made the step of acknowledging that I have an issue with alcohol and am looking for groups that can help in my previous line of work I've heard lots of mixed stories about AA some saying that they're none judgemental and really supportive and others that paint them as overly religious. Whilst I have respect for anyone's beliefs I'm an atheist and would struggle with bringing religion into what I'm guessing is going to be a protracted recovery. ,3,8c7z4y,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8c7z4y/is_aa_suitable_for_a_committed_atheist/,64,2018-04-14T10:46:22
d_leon,Anxiety and depression kicking in.,Here's my long story short. ..23y/o male started drinking at 19. Everything was kept in moderation until about last year. Started drinking heavily was blacking out every Saturday. I lost control and started drinking every day. Got a DUI out of it at only 22. Thought I was gonna stop after the DUI but it only made matters worst. I drink every day now. My job is next to a liquor warehouse so on my 30 min breaks I'll go get drunk. I'm surrounded by heavy drinkers. I don't get wasted every day but come weekends I binge drink and go out. So much money thrown away. ..The last drink I had was Saturday April 7th. Went out with co workers after work and blacked out. ..Clocked into work Sunday around 4pm. Around 6pm had an anxiety attack. I had NEVER had anxiety before so I panicked didn't know what it was (thought it was a heart attack) and called 911. Calmed down a bit got sent home and then took the next day off. ..Every since April 7th (my last drink) I've been super anxious. The second day I was extremely fatigued. The third day I started having really bad nightmares. 4th day was better but the anxiety is still there. 5th day was today and I'm super paranoid. Anxiety is toning down but I still feel a lump in my throat. ..This is not worth the drinking. I'm going at least a month without drinking because it's simply not worth all this. I have never in my life struggled with anxiety. Anxiety is a monster. I wouldn't wish it on my worst enemy.  I went from having a beer or two every single day for the last couple months to being sober 5 days. I think my brain is wacko but I'm not experiencing tremors or hallucinations or anything like that. Just ANXIETY. ..If anyone can relate PLEASE let me know. Talk to me I feel like I'm alone with this one. I wanna go at least 30 days clean. I owe it to myself and to my body. Got some lab work done and so far no damage to my liver or pancreas. I don't want this to become a problem. Was really craving a beer today but I'm scared to drink. ..Is there anyone out there going through this? You're not alone. Best wishes everyone. Stay strong guys. One day at a time. ..,1,8c6e2x,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8c6e2x/anxiety_and_depression_kicking_in/,13,2018-04-14T04:49:56
bsorbet,Sponsor resentment,I'm 3 years sober and I've been struggling on and off with a resentment toward my sponsor. I've written it out and read it to her sponsor (a couple months ago now) but it keeps coming up. I'm so frustrated - I am grateful to my sponsor she brought me through the 12 steps and helped save my life and I don't want to change sponsors. But I'm so resentful and I can't seem to turn it over completely. I'm looking for advice for anyone who's gone through something similar. ..It seems to center around: she hates me she doesn't want to spend time with me she thinks I'm annoying/lame she's judging me. She's sponsoring two other women and I'm jealous of them. I feel like she likes them more spends more time with them is kinder to them saves them seats in meetings but not me. ..After I first read the resentment to HER sponsor I was directed to talk to my sponsor to ask if we could meet more often. I did it went well we set up a day to meet weekly. But after one week she was unavailable. And when I tried to talk to her about it she kind of lost her temper at me. There had been a misunderstanding but she also said I should only be meeting her to read inventory or amends. It made me feel so embarrassed that I'd misunderstood and I was confused and resentful - I see her go out to pizza with HER sponsor almost every week I see her find her other sponsees before meetings to touch base with them. But for me I feel like she expects me to chase after her only approach her if I have inventory. It makes me feel rejected and awkward. ..Last week we had plans to meet and she was almost 30 min late. She texted me 10 min before we were supposed to meet saying she was 'almost there." She barely apologized once she got there. I get it - she was busy there was traffic I should be grateful for the time she gives me and we had plenty of time to go over the stepwork anyway. But it was just one more thing that fueled this insane resentment in my mind. ..I understand a lot of this is delusional and the same character defects that have plagued me my entire life coming out but I can't seem to change my perspective. I sense that I'm over-relying on her   I'm 3 years sober I have sponsees and right now life is good work is good &amp; I'm engaged!   so why do I feel so desperate for validation from my sponsor? I really want to work through this I really don't want to change sponsors. Has this happened to anyone else?..Thank you,2,8biqzv,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8biqzv/sponsor_resentment/,12,2018-04-11T13:10:55
Jstef06,Struggling with resentment,My old resentments are bubbling up again. I thought I forgot it but I've been forced to spend time with some negative people I loathe thanks in special part to my wife and can't let it go. ..I need help. Can someone recommend?,1,8auirx,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8auirx/struggling_with_resentment/,7,2018-04-08T20:48:55
bovinejabronie,Step 3,I'm struggling with step 3. I've been sober for almost 3 weeks which is the longest I've ever been so I do give the program credit for that. I have a sponsor and I've been working in the big book. I'm working on step 3. My sponsor just had me read from the A B Cs through the prayer in how it works. .I've never been spiritual and I've never really believed in a god so for me to turn my life over to something and say I can't manage my life alone is very difficult for me. I've always been very successful in my professional career I've never lost a job from or had DUIs I just can't manage to control or stop my drinking. It has made me miserable depressed anxious and has put me in psych wards in the past. I have no problem turning my alcoholism over to a god but I'm struggling with the idea that my life can't run on self will or self propulsion. Some of my life can. Just not the staying sober part of my life. .I do plan on talking to my sponsor about this. Am I over thinking it? Thoughts? Advice. Thanks all. ,1,8ai77q,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8ai77q/step_3/,16,2018-04-07T09:58:51
tatertot94,I lost my dad this week to an alcohol overdose.,I got the call last Wednesday that my dad had passed.  He was 48. It was confirmed it was due to an alcohol overdose.  We believe it was an accident.  ..For as long as I knew my father he battled alcohol addiction. I saw him at his worst and I saw him at his best. He went to AA for years. For most of my childhood he struggled.  He really really struggled. On top of that he had Bipolar 1 and if you know both illnesses feed off each other and create havoc on one's mental health. If you are like my father I hope you continue to read ahead. ..I love and will still continue to love him so much. Grief is just love with no place to go. There are no words to describe my emotional state right now besides heartbroken. I find peace that he won't have to suffer anymore but I just want him here. I wanted him longer. ..I guess I am posting this just to give another point of view. Even if you don't think people care about you they do. People may not understand what you're going through. Some never will. I definitely do not know the struggles my dad faced but that never changed how much I loved him. ..People love you and just want you to be happy and healthy. Unconditional love holds no judgment. Sometimes people don't understand and they may not know how to take or even accept your addiction but that doesn't mean they don't love you. ..As I saw through him I know this illness is not easy and every day is and can be a battle. My father once called himself a failure yet he was highly intelligent loved twice in his life had 2 kids who are excelling and throughout all his struggles lived a fulfilling life.  I am so proud of him.  I wish I could tell him right now. ..I'm glad he won't have to suffer but I will miss him every day. My heart hurts. Life will never be the same. .,9,8aedhg,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/8aedhg/i_lost_my_dad_this_week_to_an_alcohol_overdose/,14,2018-04-06T20:16:47
FrenchFryNinja,Daily Reflection April 5,.TRUE BROTHERHOOD..We have not once sought to be one in a family to be a friend among friends to be a worker among workers to be a useful member of society. Always we tried to struggle to the top of the heap or to hide underneath it. This self-centered behavior blocked a partnership relation with any one of those about us. Of true brotherhood we had small comprehension...  TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS p. 53..This message contained in Step Four was the first one I heard loud and clear; I hadn't seen myself in print before! Prior to my coming into A.A. I knew of no place that could teach me how to become a person among persons. From my very first meeting I saw people doing just that and I wanted what they had. One of the reasons that I'm a happy sober alcoholic today is that I'm learning this most important lesson...,1,89zaso,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/89zaso/daily_reflection_april_5/,0,2018-04-05T08:33:59
jeremiah2911-,-90-,Good Evening Family just wanted to show some love and share my experience. I have struggled with getting clean and sober for years. Put together time went out came back...   Today is my 90th day   ..Something has been inherently different this time around. The steps have been coming to life in my day to day like they never have before. I am starting to realize more about what it means to make this a way of life not something I'm going to get to the end of...If you are just coming back or just coming in don't keep coming back just stay. Find a relationship with something you can believe in. For me that Power is God and I am coming to understand how His infinite Love is creating a beautiful future for all of us...If you are reading this I believe in you. I am blessed to be clean and sober with you today. ,20,89vwk8,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/89vwk8/90/,5,2018-04-04T22:13:22
JWtechnology1,Spiritual Journey Question,I have been sober in AA for 8 years and am recently starting to explore Buddhism. I've tried to force myself (and thought I believed at times) in an Abrahamic higher power (I was raised catholic). I have worked the steps and work them with others and am an active member of the program. However I often feel like a faker because I don't believe like those around me or those I sponsor (my sponsor is a pastor and most people in my meetings are Christians). ..I think I found something that will work for me and feels right. I know our book and steps say a higher power of our own understanding but I'm struggling with the lack of any deity in Buddhism. It makes me feel like I'm running on self and am different then everyone I'm close with in AA. I have started down this path before then ran away from it because I felt like  I was doing something wrong. Has anyone walked this path? If so how did you reconcile the need for a higher power for sobriety and serenity and the lack of one in Buddhism. What do you call your higher now? ,4,89mscm,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/89mscm/spiritual_journey_question/,9,2018-04-04T01:37:39
tr3v0rr96,Do I need a sponsor to get my 1 year coin?,I'm 10 months sober haven't been to AA since I was 18 got sober at 20 without rehab a sponsor or AA and I'm 21 now and have been wondering this for a while. I want to return to AA not because I'm struggling in my sobriety rather I need an excuse to leave the house and socialize. It's not healthy for my mental health to only get my source of human communication just through Reddit considering I'm a somewhat extroverted person so I'd thought I'd attend AA and some local politics meeting so I get a healthy dose of human contact and surround myself with intelligent people. I figure perhaps AA would be a great place to meet intelligent people and maybe some of their wisdom will rub off on me. ..Anyway do I need a sponsor to get that 1 year coin? The reason why I ask is cause I can see reasons why AA might not want to give out that coin without a sponsor because of drunks that want to act like they are sober around police family and friends so they bring up the coin to some how validate that they aren't drunk. Is this a thing or is this non sense? Can I get my 1 year coin without a sponsor? ,3,88fxxl,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/88fxxl/do_i_need_a_sponsor_to_get_my_1_year_coin/,10,2018-03-30T23:05:12
MrsMertonsBirdland,revisited alcohol addiction counselor same odd thing happened,so i went back to see this alcohol addiction counselor again who i drifted away from in december because she told me she couldn't see me for two weeks in a row on dec 14th. (i did relapse in the  meantimenot to blame her) and it did not seem like she was really going to lets say paris on a huge trip but rather she just needed a break from... something. anyway went to her see again last week after a few months because i've been struggling again. after the session ends she says...once again.. i am going on spring break the office will be open but i am  basically not going to be available. i realize people do take big trips however i get strange vibes and it seems like the same all over again.  like she's casually mentioning some "spring break" that affects me in that i will have no counseler. i dunno it just seems insincere how she says it. like "oops well.. sorrrry i wont be here." not hey i have this trip planned...i can't make it in but will you be ok... etc. i mean i i came to her because i am in danger of dying of alcoholism! i need a counselor! o well thanks for reading.,6,873ots,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/873ots/revisited_alcohol_addiction_counselor_same_odd/,23,2018-03-25T17:00:43
FrenchFryNinja,Daily Reflection March 22,NO MORE STRUGGLE. . ...And we have ceased fighting anything or anyone even alcohol...  ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS p. 84..When A.A. found me I thought I was in for a struggle and that A.A. might provide the strength I needed to beat alcohol. Victorious in that fight who knows what other battles I could win. I would need to be strong though. All my previous experience with life proved that. Today I do not have to struggle or exert my will. If I take those Twelve Steps and let my Higher Power do the real work my alcohol problem disappears all by itself. My living problems also cease to be struggles. I just have to ask whether acceptance or change is required. It is not my will but His that needs doing...,3,86agr7,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/86agr7/daily_reflection_march_22/,1,2018-03-22T06:26:23
dudefam420,I know I have a problem I'm scared to get help and maybe not ready,I'm 28 years old and I have been drinking to get drunk almost every day since I was probably 24.  I have been drinking since I was around 14-15 years old but the problem didn't really start til I was 24.  I loce drinking!  People have told me I am a joy to be around when I'm drunk which is nice but pretty much everything I do outside of work revolves around drinking...My girlfriend knows I like to drink but has no idea how much I drink.  It really sucks to say this because I really care about her but I have cancelled more plans that I can count to hang out with her so I can drink...I've never been to AA and it really scares me.  I know I have an issue and I just don't know what to do other than going to AA.  Can someone give me a recommendation for how to start this?  I live alone so I never have to worry about someone catching me because I'm always drinking alone...This is really difficult because I genuinely look forward to drinking but I know I have an issue.  My body definitely wants it nearly every day!  And I will be honest I have been drinking very heavily while typing this...I don't want this dependency I want to be a better person than the person I am.  Not just for me but for those I love and care about.  Even though they may not know how much I am struggling I personally see how I am around everyond without drinking I feel terrible!!,1,866pb8,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/866pb8/i_know_i_have_a_problem_im_scared_to_get_help_and/,9,2018-03-21T18:53:54
Drumma516,On March 25th it will be 3 years of sobriety for my wife. Need celebration ideas.,Long story short My wife quit drinking for good reasons 3 years ago March 25th. She said she wants to go to a meeting to get her chip. I am so incredibly proud of her for her staying strong especially since she and I both had some dark times and I know first hand how it can feel to want but not have a drink. She doesn't have many friends and unfortunately these days when you invite people to celebrate anything without booze many don't even give an excuse they just don't show up. So I'm here to ask you folks who know the struggle how you would or did celebrate a mile stone like this with the person you love most?    ,10,85s6p0,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/85s6p0/on_march_25th_it_will_be_3_years_of_sobriety_for/,10,2018-03-20T08:09:49
FrenchFryNinja,Daily Reflection March 19,PRAYER: IT WORKS..It has been well said that  almost the only scoffers at prayer are those who never tried it enough. ..  TWELVE STEPS AND TWELVE TRADITIONS p. 97..Having grown up in an agnostic household I felt somewhat foolish when I first tried praying. I knew there was a Higher Power working in my life how else was I staying sober? but I certainly wasn't convinced he/she/it wanted to hear my prayers. People who had what I wanted said prayer was an important part of practicing the program so I persevered. With a commitment to daily prayer I was amazed to find myself becoming more serene and comfortable with my place in the world. In other words life became easier and less of a struggle. I'm still not sure who or what listens to my prayers but I'd never stop saying them for the simple reason that they work...,2,85iyh9,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/85iyh9/daily_reflection_march_19/,0,2018-03-19T08:08:11
TheJakeHenderson,Podcast about my sobriety and the struggle with addiction. THE JAKE HENDERSON PROJECT. Available everywhere.,I really don't mean to plug my podcast here but the last episode of my podcast reminded me just how grateful I am to have gotten sober through the rooms of AA. If you're looking for an honest horrific feel good podcast to listen to this one may help. My buddy ben and I both suffered from severe addiction and alcoholism and ended up getting sober at the same time. You can find episode 12 with ben Webber of the JAKE HENDERSON PROJECT on any platform. ..https://itunes.apple.com/us/podcast/the-jake-henderson-project/id1308334506?mt=2&amp;i=1000406310640,2,856o3b,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/856o3b/podcast_about_my_sobriety_and_the_struggle_with/,0,2018-03-17T17:03:04
Gddmmom,90 days,Thanks to God the rooms of Alcoholics Anonymous and people like you I'm sober today and have been for 90 consecutive days. ..I have a long history of addiction and at 36 years old I've finally taken the step to take the steps. In and out of the rooms never staying more than a few meetings. In and out of jail 2002-2003. In and out of consciousness 2005-2018. Drinking was my way out of life... until drinking led me to a nasty addiction to pain killers. It wasn't until I discovered that I was physically incapable of giving up these pills that I finally recognized the truth. ..I am a true big-book example of the alcoholic. I cannot control my drinking my drug use or my life. ..When I finally walked into the rooms I had 30 days of white-knuckled sobriety. It was just the same as every other time I walked into the rooms except this time God had opened my eyes and ears to the truth all around me. ..Thank God for the old-timers who stuck their hand out to me and celebrated each time I came back. They told me "keep coming back" and I listened. They told me to reach out to other alcoholics and I'm doing that. They told me to get a sponsor and read the book and I'm doing just that. When I walk into the rooms I have a spiritual experience of peace and serenity. No matter how messed up my head is once I open that door - I find some rest. ..Now for the 12 steps to help me find that serenity and peace in my everyday life. I'm still struggling to be happy I'm struggling to stay sober but the great gift is: This time I'm not doing it alone. ..It took me a year of trying and failing to get these 90 days and I encourage anyone who keeps falling down to keep coming back. "I haven't failed I'm only found 100 ways that didn't work." ..Thank you to all of you for being here on this sub 24 hours a day so I never have to be alone. I never have to drink or take drugs again and that feels both good and terrifying at the same time!  ,25,854459,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/854459/90_days/,9,2018-03-17T10:39:56
[deleted],Fianc  less than 1 month sober wants to drink at bachelor party (x-post r/stopdrinking),Sorry for the novel; looking for some advice thanks in advance. ...After a number of escalating incidents my fianc  recently decided to stop drinking at the very least until our wedding in May potentially for longer. I am completely in support of this an have also stopped drinking in solidarity and to make sure he doesn't have any temptation in the house. He is not in any type of recovery program for both personal and practical reasons but has a fairly strong support network of family and friends. ...His friends - all of whom drink but only some to a problematic level - are throwing him a surprise bachelor weekend and he wants to drink while there. ...His arguments are; .- That it's s once in a lifetime experience which is supposed to symbolize the end of  that life  and won't lead to relapse. .- Was a surprise which would be rude to turndown completely but he has already said no bars or clubs just the boys at one of their houses playing video games etc. thus would be a safe environment in which to drink since no one will be driving or going out anywhere. .- They won't be drinking in excess just splitting a case between the 5 of them. ...On one hand I understand these arguments and agree with some of them such as it being rude to turn down entirely. I don't understand fully why drinking has to be involved. I know that he has fun with these guys sober I've seen it and I'm worried it's just another excuse to start up again. He and a few of the other guys attending have major self control issues once they've had a few and I'm not convinced they wouldn't go out for more beer after drinking the first 24. ...I've already told him I support him in his sobriety but this is ultimately his choice and voiced my concerns about a relapse. Despite this he is confident it will be a one time thing specifically related to the once in a life time opportunity of a bachelor party. ...I haven't struggled with this type of addiction but from my experience with other addiction and family members with addiction plus his history of  quitting  finding some excuse ( it's the holidays! ) and seriously relapsing I have trouble believing that this really will be a one time thing. I guess that's the really long winded way of asking your advice as people who have experienced this first hand. Should I be worried or is this really a one off? How can I best make sure he doesn't miss out on the fun of a bachelor party and still support him in his sobriety? ,0,84ma4t,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/84ma4t/fianc _less_than_1_month_sober_wants_to_drink_at/,27,2018-03-15T09:03:09
jeremiah2911-,The Beautiful Struggle,Good afternoon Recovery Family just wanted to post this to see if anyone else has HAD this experience and what you did with it. ..The road to recovery for me has not been without it's missteps. A funny thing has happened to me along the way though. When I got here over 10 years ago I was at deaths door lost everything dealing with a host of issues due to my using &amp; drinking. I stayed for a few years life got real good and went out for a few years...The crux of this post is this. Even when I went out I never went back (on the outside) to how bad my life had gotten in the past. My career continued to progress my Faith and walk with God grew I got married to an amazing woman. Life kept moving forward in a positive direction...After a time my alcoholism progressed and it got bad again. Worse than before (on the inside). I came back to AA and life has been even better than it was the first time. I got truly honest with myself in realizing that I REALLY couldn't drink or use. I have no intention of getting loaded for any reason especially not today...Now to get to my actual question. People say my sponsor included no big decisions in the first year. I understand the thought behind this but Dr Bob and Bill literally started this program in their first year as well as did nothing else except make major decisions. On top of that although I am physically new again in my heart I have a background of many years of experience and faith. ..Thoughts? Ideas? I'm not saying that I'm going to go and change major stuff but I'm considering a new career path that's more fulfilling and other things like that. ..Love and Light to all of you        ,1,83r4ur,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/83r4ur/the_beautiful_struggle/,3,2018-03-11T20:55:22
Mike3521,I'm contemplating joining AA. Advice?,There is a lot of writing here and it's cool if you choose not to read it. I'm kind of all over the place with this and there's a lot left out about my habits and reasons I drink and my mindset and experiences with alcohal it's hard to know what to write and what's important. ..So I'm 27 and am thinking about joining the program. I've never really thought of myself as having a problem it was always just fun to drink for me. I started drinking in high school and would drink a ton not all the time but when I did I always drank until I was wasted. I joined the Marines at 19  and my drinking got way worse it's kind of a part of the culture in the Marines. I would drink the same way there I'd have times when I would try to go into a night drinking responsibly and there would be a tipping point and I wouldn't realize I crossed it until the next morning. I never usually got into trouble and just was the life of the party but I'd wake up regretting getting so fucked up I was more upset at letting the alcohol get the best of me than the night because I had a blast. It started to get really bad during my divorce and before my deployment. I would buy a bottle and drink by myself and go out with the purpose of getting super drunk. I spent a night in the tank once and when I was back home drinking my family tried to tell me they think I have a problem. I still just thought I knew how to have a good time and wasn't hurting anyone but they would see me so drunk at times I couldn't stand up straight . I mean people have a hard time telling if I even am drinking because I compose myself very well(until I don't.) A year after all of this I got out of the Marines and me and my best friend who I made during the Marines moved back to our home town(we were from the same place). We both struggled with our alcohol and leaned on each other a lot. We would teeter totter our months of struggling like a few months he'd struggle and be drinking a lot and I'd be the one who drank less and helped him and it would switch like that. I would drink when I was stressed or feeling emotional or even when I was super happy but not all of the time. My friend was on his turn of drinking too much and one morning I didn't hear from him and neither did his mom so she and I went to his apartment and I broke in. I found him cold and stiff with his revolver in his lap. (he would have never killed himself sober I knew it was the alcohol) It broke my heart more than anything ever has in my entire life. After that I feel like my alcohol issues have been super minimal. I can drink a few beers during a meal or event and not go overboard. I even DD'd for the first time in my life. My fianc  is really proud of me but what scares me is when I feel buzzed I still love it too much and it's honestly a way I feel close to my buddy who killed himself. Even with this huge accomplishment I still find myself craving a drink and I've bought a bottle of scotch to "relax" by myself and drank half one night and the next I finished it off and found another half bottle of vodka and tequila that I polished off. I enjoyed it so much just writing and drinking all night. Even with my drinking being less I feel like I substitute it with food or the gym or lean heavily on my fianc ... Even with feeling better about my drinking I'm still scared of the craving and occasional binges. I don't know if I need AA. I don't know if I could not drink if I went to a party or gathering like I don't know if I'd have fun and most of the time It's harmless and I have fun. I try to drink only when I feel I'm not doing it for unhealthy reasons. The idea of sobriety sounds nice but I tell myself I can be an adult and drink like one...There's so much more that I can't cover here like details of times I've drank or how I feel and I don't know if I need advice as much as I wanted to vent...Well if you read all this I wouldn't mind advice and answering any questions you may have that could help me figure out if I should attempt sobriety or if I am okay with how things have been going and just try hard to not abuse. I guess I'm not even sure if I have a problem or not...If you made it this far thanks! ,3,833v4o,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/833v4o/im_contemplating_joining_aa_advice/,14,2018-03-08T23:02:27
EnbyDee,I use alcohol to manage my anxiety,I am in a professional role and am technically very good at what I do but I struggle with task management and have a real cognitive issue with the processes in place to manage workflow. I've developed many avoidance techniques which seem to keep the wolves from the door my immediate superior says I just need to manage my time and I could be a superstar but it's not time but tasks I can't manage..I avoid simple tasks and they become bigger issues. I perceive those issues to be even bigger than they are because of my mindset which makes me avoid them in the first place..Knowing at some point they must be dealt with in my head I think I'll be sacked (I won't) but have a mortgage so seem to do all I can to avoid discussion..When I leave the office I turn to alcohol to get me through the evening using it to ignore the weight of life and accelerate sleep..I'm intelligent enough to realise I should just stop and rectify damage done but can't seem to physically break that cycle..It's a Sunday and I've had two bottles of wine and four lagers. That isn't right..Sorry if this isn't within rules I've just come to a point where I need to talk aboit it.,7,821wd0,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/821wd0/i_use_alcohol_to_manage_my_anxiety/,13,2018-03-04T19:23:08
OK-Potato,Serial relapses.,Well the title says it all. I've been in and around AA for coming up-to 11 years. During that time I've had months with complete abstinence and a couple of times I've hit or almost hit the year mark...I'm a binge drinker. So my relapses can be one night affairs sometimes it can be where I drink 3 or 4 times a week for a while for a period of months. ..I absolutely hate it. It feeds into a negative cycle of self loathing as inevitably I do or say stupid things that make my life worse. This in turn impacts my mental health and self esteem. ..I've had sponsors and worked through to step 10. I've done steps 4 5 and 9 and few times now (the hard ones) and I will say it had a positive effect but it hasn't stopped me drinking. ..I have a new sponsor who is very good he listens to me and actually seems to care. As a result I've opened up more than I have done with previous ones. But I'm still struggling not to binge especially if my depression is particularly bad. ..I don't want to have to keep doing this over and over and over again. Each time I "come back" it gets harder and harder to go through it all again. Just to throw it away a few days weeks months later. ..I can't even say that I'd rather be drinking I HATE the stuff. It has been the root cause of all my problems and yet I find myself doing it over and over. ..I'm just tired of it all and wanted to get it out there as I'm not a very eloquent sharer and frankly people must be sick of seeing back in and out all the time. ..Thank you for reading. ..PS. Typing on mobile so apologies for spelling mistakes etc.,7,81wrib,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/81wrib/serial_relapses/,11,2018-03-04T04:28:20
itsanerdthing,Made amends to an ex today. It went as well as I could hope but I still feel a weightiness. Would love your experience strength and hope on the subject.,I am a year and a half sober and moving cross country next week so and I had a big amends that I wanted to make to my ex-boyfriend before I move I put it off for so long because A) it was the hardest one to do and my sponsor had me start with easier ones and B) I still have feelings for this guy...Anyway I tried contacting him a couple times in the past 24 hours as I couldn't sleep this week knowing that I want to make this amends before I move. (Prime example of "If you don't work the steps they will work *you*.") Ended up doing the amends over the phone this morning took responsibility and acknowledged where I was wrong in our previous relationship and apologized and asked if there was anything I could do to make it right...He was super sweet per usual and told me that there's nothing I need to do to make things right and that he's happy that am doing well and that I've stayed sober. And we chatted for a couple minutes and that was it...I was honestly hoping that I would instantly feel better afterwards and that the promises were going to fall right into my lap but I'm just struggling with the fact that I need to sit with this and sometimes they materialize slowly when I do the work for them. And I want to feel awesome right now ^^^(what ^^an ^^alcoholic.) but I just feel so uncomfortable and sad. I want so badly to pretend this away but I know that's not the answer and that would be no different than when I was drinking...Anyway I think the fact that he has said he has moved on is part of it I'm not sure. With all the other amends I've felt a huge relief instantly. I'm not able to get ahold of my sponsor today. I've gone to a couple meetings so far and am going to go to another one today just trying to do the next right thing but in the meantime would love to hear your guys' experience strength and hope on the matter...,19,80zubc,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/80zubc/made_amends_to_an_ex_today_it_went_as_well_as_i/,12,2018-02-28T16:36:19
oatmeal_huh,Gratitude,8-10 Years ago I would sit in my bedroom in my mom's attic and think about how I was never going to make it out of that room. I had no real job no money and no direction. My only concern was how to escape everyday through the use of alcohol and other things.  ..I felt like I had no future and I was probably going to end my life in my moms attic. The life I was living just wasn't worth it to me. I saw no real future for myself and it was impossible to see it ending any other way.  I was not going to accept being the drunk son in the attic still asking for his mom to buy him cigarettes. If that was life then I didn't want it. ..In 2010 I called for help and started a new life. God and the 12 steps blessed me with  a second chance. I went back to school found a career and got engaged. Most importantly I became okay with myself one day a time while continuing to build a life over the last 7.5 years. ..Last night we signed papers to buy the house that attic is in. I might die in that attic now but it will be as the owner instead of a burden of a son that won't leave...This house is nothing major. Its a big deal to me obviously but this is what you're supposed to do. I just needed AA to teach me how to live. I post this because if you're struggling pick up the phone there's a new life waiting for you. .,15,7zwfrs,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7zwfrs/gratitude/,2,2018-02-24T07:59:19
brbaaaa,5 unexpected things I experienced from my first AA meeting.,1. I was almost always the only girl in a room full of around 10~15 guys for the first three meetings. And then two girls showed up in my next meeting...2. I was 20 years old at that time so I pretty much went in expecting to be the youngest one there and I was but I was still surprised to see quite a lot of young people (mid 20s ~ early 30s). ..3. In all honesty the first time I went I simply went half out of curiosity and half because my therapist had suggested that I "check to see what it's like." I wasn't even determined to get sober at that time. I had been around 10 hours sober when I walked in so I was shocked to see that almost everyone in the room had all been at least a year or more sober which is why I never had the guts to speak up. I always just listened to other people speak wondering why they still felt the need to come to these meetings...4. Three guys hit on me the first and second time I went. It was very hard to reject them because of the way they approached me. It was like "hey so how long you been sober for? let me have your number so we can help each other out." Not in a "let me be your sponsor" kind of way but in a very creepy way but also not the kind of thing you can respond with "I have a boyfriend" to. This was one of the main reasons I stopped going. Later I met this great girl who became my sponsor for a short while and she told me that in these meetings it's usually better for girls to stick with girls and for guys to do so with guys. ..5. Not a single person talked about the struggles of being sober. I think it has to do with what I said in #3 about how long they all had been sober for. It was always about how much their lives have improved since they quit drinking and as someone who couldn't even imagine being sober for a day I just could not relate at all and didn't feel like I belonged there. ..Anyways I'm not in AA anymore. I'm still an alcoholic but not as bad as I was before. I just thought it'd be interesting to share. ,4,7zdk9o,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7zdk9o/5_unexpected_things_i_experienced_from_my_first/,14,2018-02-22T04:05:41
dan_jeffers,Today is 39 years sober.,I was originally written up on charges in the Navy sent to rehab in exchange for dropping those charges. I struggled for the first couple years with identifying myself as an alcoholic getting a sponsor etc. I have also been diagnosed with ADHD and depression gotten married divorced and gone through many life events. All this is life and I am very grateful that AA has given me a chance to live it.,34,7yy0po,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7yy0po/today_is_39_years_sober/,15,2018-02-20T13:08:47
DBchamp,"Newcomer" experience,In many ways newcomers have it pretty good. My area has something like 500 meetings a week within 20 miles.  I can find any meeting online and i have the option of these subreddits youtube etc... like i said a lot of information and access...I have a little over 4 years of sobriety and on a whim i decided to hit a meeting out of town that was Obeg (Open Beginner.) ..Upon entering there was only about 6 men 40 years and younger. Two of the attendees had ankle monitors one early 20 something year old was self-admittingly struggling and the rest were relatively silent...From the very start there was no formal structured introduction the "chair" just started talking about the need for faith belief and love (all fine) after about 10 mins of that one of the ankle monitor guy rambled for 10 mins the chair in turn commented on his share ankle guy talked again for another 10 mins...At this point im kind of loosing my sanity then the new guy opens up and shares hes struggling...The same 2 guys that have been speaking the whole time did it again but this time lecturing the new guy what he needs to do one of them was even speaking about Jesus...I was trying to be polite but was kind of looking at the ground in a vain attempt to not encourage these ramblings and then one of them in the middle of their cross talk of the new guy pointed at me and said "you cant just come to meetings look down and not say anything theres no way you can get sober!."..At that point i got up walked over put a dollar in the basket because i did grab a coffee and walked out...If i was brand new and that was my first experience i would have went back out maybe never have come back...Still wondering if i should have spoke up it wasn't my regular meeting and each is autonomous but wow...Something i had to vent about....,2,7ysiwk,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7ysiwk/newcomer_experience/,6,2018-02-19T21:37:51
Bambicake_,I will start tomorrow,I've struggled for 5 years now trying to stop. I could go a week or two once a month then I would be right back into it. I have never been to an AA meeting. I keep thinking that I can do this on my own. I decided to stop again yesterday. today is day two and I am telling myself "I can try again tomorrow get some wine right now". ..I saw this group and I'm wondering if someone can just tell me where to start? I have been fighting with myself to just grab my keys and run to the liquor store right now the snow storm here is helping because I don't want to go out. ..I am aware on how dependent I am and just can't shake it. I rely on it to relax but that feeling to wake up with out a hangover is so nice. ,7,7yruls,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7yruls/i_will_start_tomorrow/,16,2018-02-19T19:54:45
[deleted],Anyone else struggle with moderation?,[deleted],1,7yr728,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7yr728/anyone_else_struggle_with_moderation/,5,2018-02-19T18:21:45
shortyafter,I'm sober wow!,I'm at about 4 and a 1/2 years sober now.  My life has really come full circle and gratitude is a normal practice for me.  But with the daily struggles of life and new goals in my head although I still want to stay away from alcohol I sometimes forget the significance of my sobriety.  Today wasn't a remarkably good or bad day but for some reason I really felt grateful to be sober.  I really saw my sobriety for what it is - a gift and a miracle.  For me at least for today these aren't just empty words - I am truly grateful to be sober.  And as long as I'm sober anything else is possible...And it just so happened that after I started thinking that way my day started going really well.  I guess it already was going well - I just started to realize and appreciate it...Thanks folks.,24,7ya9r2,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7ya9r2/im_sober_wow/,4,2018-02-17T18:13:18
LezBeeHonest,Can someone talk to me?,I'm struggling with addiction. Going thru my apartment complex trying to fight anyone. I saw a guy recording me on his phone. What the fuck am I supposed to do? I can't stop drinking. Its the only thing that stops racing thoughts. I think about everything that I've ever done that's embarrassing all the time. I've been kicked out of multiple therapy offices for being honest. I'm the kind of person that hands my last dollar to homeless but I cant seem to help myself. Therapists say they are enabling me by talking to me so I'm worried about the one I'm supposed to see. When you have a therapist you are literally paying someone to stick by you and they won't even do it. I don't know how I can trust someone and get the help I need. I'm an atheist so I don't want to go to AA,13,7y22oy,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7y22oy/can_someone_talk_to_me/,22,2018-02-16T16:28:02
NotYourDrinkingPal,Is it typical to be jealous of those who have had way worse experiences than me?,I don't like writing this but it's something I've been thinking about...So sitting in a meeting I'm hearing from all these people who had such terrible experiences.  Like homeless no job drunk for months on end everyone writes them off.  I never had that.  I'm a functioning alcoholic (now just 2 days sober) -- although less functioning as time goes on...There is a bit of jealousy for those who were that low.  I have a good job but I'm struggling.  Until recently I've always been successful.  I feel like I'm expected to continue to be successful despite my struggles.  There must be something freeing about knowing you had thrown your entire life away and expectations for you are very low.  Like just staying sober is enough to make people proud of you.  I wish just staying sober was all I had to worry about...EDIT:  Just for the record I realize this is diseased thinking and that getting worse would make things worse.  I have no actual desire to hit any bottom lower than I've already hit.  I just had to get this off my chest.,6,7xlyqb,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7xlyqb/is_it_typical_to_be_jealous_of_those_who_have_had/,38,2018-02-14T17:35:42
mistakelord,Why is it important to call people?,I'm in early recovery and am struggling hard. Looping thoughts of guilt are freezing me with anxiety. ..Anyway my sponsor always tells me to call more people. ..Obviously I don't want to do this as I feel I have nothing to say other than negative things and it feels like a huge task to call people while I can barely do routine things like make some cereal for myself. ..But I'm sure there's a reason why this is good for my recovery but I'd just like to know why.,9,7wijif,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7wijif/why_is_it_important_to_call_people/,43,2018-02-09T21:06:42
MikeArmour,Try this if you're struggling,,3,7wckaj,https://medium.com/@michaelmather_42380/3-must-haves-for-addiction-recovery-7b28d232324b,2,2018-02-09T05:24:21
mindfulsean,To anyone struggling with a drink,18 months ago I walked into the rooms of Alcoholics Anonymous...This was one day after I got caught drinking in the basement again tipping the can back out of the corner of my eye seeing my wife coming down the steps caught dead to rights...I walked in to a small meeting.  I told myself it was better than walking into a huge room of strangers...I sat in the chairs for a few months just sitting there not talking much just being there...Something told me I needed to get a sponsor.  I walked up to someone with some time and asked about the whole sponsor thing.  She pointed me in the right direction and I found a sponsor...I started doing the steps with no preconceptions to what God was or how much work the steps would take or if this would work.  I didn't have any expectations set...I went through the steps with my sponsor and let go of all my resentments...I had a spiritual experience and was awakened to this life I had been passing through for so long...18 months ago I walked into the rooms of Alcoholics Anonymous only to be awakened and saved.  I owe everything to the rooms of AA...Science says if one person can be going through what you're going through and still be happy then it's possible.  Recovery is possible.  Anything is possible for this alcoholic and it can be for you too...Participate in your recovery you'll have a life beyond your wildest dreams..,17,7vyvjg,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7vyvjg/to_anyone_struggling_with_a_drink/,3,2018-02-07T14:54:32
Bonefiend18,Drank las night. Im done with alcohol. Im going to an AA meeting in a few hours.,Ive been an alcoholic for a few years already. Ive struggled with sobriety on and off for a while. I really wouldn't take the meetings to seriously but im tired of having my ass kicked everyday when i drink. Im tired of being hungover and feeling like i can't do anything because i either smell like alcohol or im just drunk or hungover. This too shall pass. One day at a time. I hope i meet some good people at this meeting. Wish me luck!,32,7v9h0h,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7v9h0h/drank_las_night_im_done_with_alcohol_im_going_to/,16,2018-02-04T15:48:23
morandachan,Celebrating ONE YEAR(!!!) of sobriety,Hi everyone! I'm new to reddit so bear with me here. I'm celebrating my 1 year of sobriety today something that I never thought I could achieve. The fellowship of AA took me in with open arms and truly saved my life. I'm so grateful to be alive today and it's all thanks to the steps and my higher power. While I'm still newly sober I hope that this gives a glimmer of hope to anyone who is struggling and looking for an answer. I promise - you will find it in the rooms!,22,7umih5,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7umih5/celebrating_one_year_of_sobriety/,14,2018-02-01T17:12:10
comms22,Amends,After a little over two years of sobriety I have crossed off all but one name on my list of making amends.  Due to the circumstances of my relationship with that person I can't send them the letter I wrote but I felt the need to share it with the universe. I hope whoever reads this gains something useful and or relatable. ..Dear _____..About two years ago I ended up in rehab and have been sober since January 2016. Part of being sober and in AA is working the 12 steps of the program. One of these steps is an amends step and that's what I'm attempting to do here. I have debated with myself for a while now on if I should send this to you or not. I don't want to cause any problems in your life I see you are happy and I want that for you. This is not a letter proclaiming undying love and its purpose is not to disrupt your relationship. This letter is my apology to you for all the wrongs I committed against you. I accept responsibility for my harmful behaviors directed towards you...I behaved in a self-centered manipulative selfish and unkind manner. You remained true to your character and over-looked my problems more times then I care to admit. I complained about not having enough of your attention when it was all you were giving. I should have thanked you but instead I complained. I shared what should have been private between us with others when I knew better and caused a lot of embarrassment for you. When you were trying to keep it together I was doing everything I could to cut the cord. I did not dare believe in your dedication or give you the trust you rightfully deserved. It must have been so frustrating for you.  I regret not cherishing you when I should have and could have but am happy that you have found someone who does. You deserve it...In truth I was unhappy with myself and wondered what you were doing with me. I am truly regretful for the way I treated you. You did not deserve unkind treatment; you were the bright spot in my life. I just never told you. I was selfish reckless drunk high or hung over far too often and because of this behavior I wasn't a good friend or romantic partner to you and I'm very sorry for that. Deep down I wanted to be and that's why I struggled so much but my intentions don't count here. I'm sorry for every single time I drank too much. Every single time I did any drugs. Every single time I was hung over and not available to you. Every single time I choose getting drunk and/or doing drugs over you or our relationship or any plans we made. I'm sorry for every single time I embarrassed you or made it hard/uncomfortable on you in any way. There were times when you with good reason would call me  out  on my poor behavior and I would argue with you or try to push the focus on you or try to justify my actions. I was wrong. Dead wrong. I apologize...I would like to thank you for giving me a chance when nobody else did for sticking by me and for always being there for me no matter what. A person like you is irreplaceable. After all that you have done for me and I wish I could say the same for myself to you. What really sticks with me is that you above everybody else always saw the potential in me and the person I could become. I applaud your will to tolerate my lowest of lows and my highest of highs because God knows they are so different. No matter what happens please know that I am sorry and I wish nothing but the best things for you including happiness with a woman that deserves you...Sincerely.S,10,7twuoa,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7twuoa/amends/,2,2018-01-29T19:07:59
isthisit206,Is there a Big Book available that replaces every mention of God with Higher Power?,The title basically says it all. I do not relate to calling my higher power God and I struggle to work through and read the big book with the constant mentions of God. One person in the program even told me to think of God as an acronym for Good Orderly Direction and I like that idea but if there is a text out there preferably in print that has simply altered that word I would really love to find it. I did some searching online and came up with nothing. I'm sure some of you further along in recovery whose higher power is not God have gotten over the frequent mentions in the book but as a newcomer with two weeks sobriety I just want something I can relate to more. Does that make sense? I've had a bad experience with organized religion growing up and connotation of God puts me off even though I know I can choose my own concept of higher power. And yes I read the chapter on agnostics but darn it that word God just keeps tripping me up.,1,7ti5oh,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7ti5oh/is_there_a_big_book_available_that_replaces_every/,19,2018-01-27T23:33:15
vjsb,I like my meetings but I need some advice...,I won't go too far into it but I got in some legal trouble and now I've been told I have to attend at least two meetings a week to keep my drivers license. I don't mind the meetings and in fact I actually enjoy the stories from some of the old timers. ..Really I just feel weird because while I do have a desire to stop drinking (I've been sober about 4 years now and it's the best thing I could have ever done for myself and everyone around me) I know I don't need to go to the meetings to stay sober and there are people in the rooms who really struggle just to get their 24h. People see me have the chair sign my attendance sheet at the end of every meeting but nobody has  said anything about it or asked me anything so I assume that they see guys like me come in all the time who are court ordered for one reason or another. ..I don't really have a choice because I either go or lose my license but do I just go and put in the time or should I actually share and let people know what's up? I don't want anyone to have any resentments towards me either way I just want to be able to be on good terms with the people in the groups because I'm going to be spending a lot of time there.   ,2,7t7q7c,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7t7q7c/i_like_my_meetings_but_i_need_some_advice/,10,2018-01-26T16:13:40
XovNielkArze,Don't know what to write about for fourth step,I am what you might call a high bottom drunk. Came to AA of my own volition no legal trouble never lost a job or relationships. But I knew all those things were in my future if I kept going...I'm writing my fourth step now and I'm genuinely struggling to think of people I've wronged or am resentful at. Yes there are a few things but nothing really large. ..Anyone else face this? Am I just in denial?,10,7t1gne,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7t1gne/dont_know_what_to_write_about_for_fourth_step/,25,2018-01-25T21:21:09
PM_me_your_Jeep,My sponsor called me to tell me he'd been drinking the last couple months.,So my sponsor and I ended up being pretty good friends after we completed the steps. The last few months we've both been busy. I haven't been going to many meetings but always keep in touch with my sober circle. He stopped going to meetings completely and our communication dropped off quite a bit. But we still texted and talked shit. ..He called me today and we bullshitted a little then he let me know he's been drinking. He struggled with  dry goods  as well and says he's not on those. Says he's drinking responsibly having a good time not missing work or driving drunk.... ..Part of me doesn't care. He's a grown up and can do what he wants. The other part of me feels a little abandoned. He's my dude. Someone I confided in about some crazy shit and who helped guide me through my process. ..I've seen many people relapse in my 19+ months but most of them didn't put in the work or didn't have a role in my sobriety. So I kind of shrugged it off. This one feels different. A few of us had an idea he was drinking again but hearing it from the source is weird. It is causing some thoughts and emotions I didn't see coming. I'm mad then I don't care then I'm like fuck it hat's off to you man! But part of me is also jealous. Like damn he can (so far) drink without impunity so maybe I can. It's a weird spot to be in. ..Have any of you dealt with this? I'm conflicted about talking to any of my sober friends as they are all mutual friends of his and I don't want to put his shit out there. ,3,7srzr6,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7srzr6/my_sponsor_called_me_to_tell_me_hed_been_drinking/,17,2018-01-24T19:45:12
Cwellz123,I actually really enjoy attending meetings,I know that there are a lot of people who see attending meetings as a chore kind of like going to work or going to school but I actually really enjoy the meetings. It's nice to be surrounded with people who have the same problems I have. I enjoy hearing these people's stories and enjoy studying the book of AA and working the steps cuz it makes me feel more enlightened and like I'm growing as a person. It's also nice to be in a place where I don't feel judged for struggling with drugs and alcohol. My family is very judgmental of my addiction and I can't really reach out to them about it cuz of that. I feel like I have a lot in common with the people there and I feel that sense of being part of a community. Anyone else agree? ,10,7s7lb6,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7s7lb6/i_actually_really_enjoy_attending_meetings/,14,2018-01-22T13:02:53
ratty510,Struggling . Day4,Had great day all went well went to interview and went really well. Came home to partner lazing around with nothing done in house. Just drives me crazy.  I making all this effort and he doesnt do anything . Makes me think why bother! Then think cause dont wanna be that person anymore. I not drink today ,8,7qtlbt,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7qtlbt/struggling_day4/,11,2018-01-16T11:48:42
isthisit206,Early recovery and guilt about time away from family,I am a stay at home mom with 2 young children 3 and 1. I have a supportive husband but I feel like he is getting burnt out with working full time and taking care of the kids after he gets off work so I can go to meetings. I also voluntarily enrolled in an intensive outpatient program that is 3 nights a week 3 hours each...Luckily I noticed the symptoms of my addiction before it got completely out of control. But I could see the writing on the wall and know I'm an addict - especially given my father's many additions. Marijuana was my drug of choice but I am also an alcoholic. ..I'm depressed but I'm being treated for it by therapist and psychiatrist. A part of my recovery is my desire to stop drinking and using drugs to ignore my feelings. My anxiety is through the roof. I have so much guilt. I'm dealing with withdrawals from the pot and alcohol. No shakes or anything like that but angry irritable moody... You know. ..My sober date is 1/12/18 so I'm in the super early stages of recovery and am working on the first step. I've been to 2 meetings so far and I love it. It makes me feel so good to be around people who can relate to my struggles without judgement...My husband has never drank a drop of alcohol in his life nor done drugs so it's an interesting dynamic with us. He never really minded the drinking but wasn't a fan of the pot but because we live in a legal state he sort of let it go. Of course he never knew how much I was using when he wasn't around and I hid a lot of the use I did when he was home. We addicts think we're sneaky like that. ..He is supportive but I feel like it's hard for him to grasp the reality of addiction. He didn't know I had a problem because being a non-user himself he had no way to judge what was "healthy" (non-addict) use. I used that to my advantage of course. ..I just want to hear how others felt with being absent from your families during the early stages of recovery. Did your partner get burnt out? I am so crippled with depression right now so I am not even keeping up with the house. All I want to do right now is read the big book and meditate. It sounds selfish...I know we must take care of ourselves before we can take care of others and begin to have meaningful relationships again but I just feel so guilty. And needy...We've got family to help some but they can't do much more than they have been. And they've been doing a lot (watching kids cleaning our house folding laundry)...I feel lucky and so grateful for their help but just can't shake the feeling that I am a burden...Also it's probably worth mentioning that my husband is coming to family nights (once a week) at my outpatient program so he will be getting a better education on addiction but it will just take time...Thanks for any stories you can share or encouragement.,1,7qn6nm,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7qn6nm/early_recovery_and_guilt_about_time_away_from/,6,2018-01-15T16:45:23
pineapplekid,Sponsorship,I've been working with my sponsor for about 2 months now and I feel like I'm not making progress. She's my third sponsor to date. The last sponsor I had was wonderful but she was unable to continue sponsoring me for a good reason...I ended up calling my former sponsor up a few days ago because I was having a rough time. I did more work with her in a couple of hours on the phone than I have in the past 2 months with my current sponsor. ..Former sponsor says she's willing to sponsor me again after I expressed that things aren't clicking with my new sponsor. ..Ultimately I am responsible for my sobriety and I feel like I should return to my former sponsor because I feel like I will grow spiritually with her as my sponsor as opposed to staying stagnant with my current one. ..Any advice on how to go about this? Anyone have any experience they are willing to share?..Thanks and happy 24!..Edit: just to clarify my gut is telling me that the best move for my sobriety is to go back to my former sponsor but I'm struggling with telling my current sponsor this. My apologies... I didn't get out what I wanted to ask for help with in the initial post. ,5,7q2wha,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7q2wha/sponsorship/,21,2018-01-13T01:21:59
Caligirl1986,I'm having a hard time and need some advice. Somebody please help.,So just past 30 days sober and I am in this thing now. I've dedicated my whole life to staying sober. When I originally started this my sister in law had just recently become sober as well so we were a big support for each other. Hearing her happiness gave me the nudge I needed to do what I already knew I wanted but struggled with. ..After a couple of weeks she relapsed. When she does this she disappears for days at a time which is very hard for me because we are super close. This past relapse I didn't hear from her for 5 days. I finally talked to her today and she told me everything she had experienced and how she doesn't want to do this anymore and is struggling. ..After this past relapse I want to help her in any way I can to stay sober knowing that it's ultimately up to her. I need advice on what to say to her when she disappears for days as well as what to do when she calls and is struggling and wants to drink but is calling so she doesn't do it. what do I say??,3,7p1roa,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7p1roa/im_having_a_hard_time_and_need_some_advice/,14,2018-01-08T16:13:13
hardestmonkey2kill,i need help but won't seek it,hi there. i am a 27 year old female who struggles with alcoholism and substance abuse. i know that i need help but i can't find it within myself to seek help...i constantly binge drink do coke pop addies and stay up all night. and i always end up regretting it. i understand the consequences of my actions (physically emotionally socially) but it doesn't seem like it will ever be enough to make me stop. i constantly fear for the state of my heart...i am currently on an all-nighter - i drank last night for my cousin's birthday but couldn't sleep because i popped some addie...what do you when you nothing seems like it can motivate you to change? i genuinely feel hopeless sometimes.,2,7otxm5,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7otxm5/i_need_help_but_wont_seek_it/,14,2018-01-07T17:35:05
anchor139,I'm at a loss,Need advice. As the S/O of someone who struggles with drinking I'm interested to hear from others how they want to be supported. What's the best way to go about this? What would be most beneficial to you? A little backstory: my s/o went about 9 months without had a pretty hefty relapse this past summer and has struggled every couple months since. I'm trying to be supportive but I become a monster when they drink. I'm at my wits end. I just found out they've been drinking again tonight and I'm so frustrated because this really could have been avoided. Its just a couple beers so far so they're a saying it won't be an issue. Until tonight It's been about a week since the last drink. My immediate reaction is to get upset and I tend to lecture. Which I hate. So what should I do? Part of me thinks I should go home (we don't live together) and calm myself down. But then I get these crazy thoughts like...what if they do something stupid and hurt themselves or someone else? What if me leaving them alone tonight makes them so depressed it gets worse? I feel trapped and like there's no good way to respond to this without either feeling like I'm abandoning them or without confronting and making them feel even worse about themselves. So if you were the one sitting at home after a couple beers right now how would you want your s/o to respond? What would help you out the most?? .Thanks ,3,7ogitg,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7ogitg/im_at_a_loss/,21,2018-01-05T21:51:19
waitshhhhhh,21 years today. If I can do it you can do it too.,For me it took AA. I tried to manage my drinking for a couple of years and read the book Moderation Management. I thought it was a solid plan but I needed to meet other people who were going thru the same struggle with drinking I went thru. And I found that in AA..I needed to hear about how they drank because I didn't know other people bargained and made deals with themselves that they kept breaking despite their best intentions...I had no idea I could quit when I walked into that first AA meeting. I wasn't even willing to admit I was an alcoholic. But as the book says "The only requirement for membership is the desire to stop drinking."..I had that...So I decided two things in that first meeting...1. No bargains. For the next 30 days I was going to not drink no matter how good an idea it seemed or what rationale my head gave me...2. I decided to pretend I was an alcoholic even if I didn't want to admit it. And I decided to do what an alcoholic should do in that situation -- get people's phone numbers and go to meetings...It started that simple for me...It can be that simple for you too...You don't ever have to drink again...Today can be that day. ,37,7nwrun,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7nwrun/21_years_today_if_i_can_do_it_you_can_do_it_too/,13,2018-01-03T13:57:25
kolty910,One year sober today.,I can't believe I made it this far. As of today January 3 2018 I have been sober for 1 year. ..I still struggle every day. I think about drinking multiple times a day and still physically crave it but I'm very thankful that it's not as all consuming as it was. ..I also struggle with the same and guilt associated with being an alcoholic. My family and the few friends I've shared my sobriety with have been amazingly supportive but I still feel ashamed. ..But today... today I am celebrating. One freaking year sober. Last year on this day I was just hoping to make it through the next minute the next hour. And now here I am. Thank God. .,34,7nthps,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7nthps/one_year_sober_today/,13,2018-01-03T04:00:51
FledglingAlcoholic,Recognising my problem,I am quite young in my twenties. This makes it a bit difficult to engage in discussion about alcoholism most of my friends would just say  you are young you are just in your party phase'. I'm lucky to have my father around who is a recovering alcoholic he has been sober now for over 18 years and I am so proud of  him and I'm lucky to have such a good example to follow. This post discusses a binge drinking session and potential sexual assault? It's difficult to comprehend. I'm sorry if this is difficult to read but if you may be triggered or upset by those topics please leave the post...Recently my partner went away to visit family over the Christmas holidays I couldn't afford the flights due to lots of contributing factors. I was crushed that I couldn't go with him but I hold no grudge against him for going. I'm happy he spent time with family as they do not see him often. Every single day that he was gone I drank alcohol. I would start as early as 9am some days and it would continue until I fell asleep. I'm so angry at myself because I ended up in a situation that was not okay a friend that I trusted came over with another friend my expectations just being hanging out with music games and not being alone for Christmas Eve. I drank to the point of blacking out and the next morning woke up with my  trusted' friend in bed with me naked. I have bruises all over me from what happened and I was so betrayed. He knows my partner and at one stage was close with my brother and father. I couldn't believe what happened. I drank again all that day because I was so distraught. I feel as if I've been unfaithful to my partner and I feel violated. It's very conflicting because I had no clue what I was engaging in...I called my father after my partner had gotten back and told my dad everything. I'm at his house now and we've been talking about alcohol abuse. I feel so guilty. As my username suggests I have realised that alcohol is becoming a problem. I always believed that I was an intelligent individual and I would know when to reign in myself I've never been a party animal and I didn't start drinking til well after my 18th (legal age in my country). I'm shocked that I let it go on for so long I look back at my drinking behaviours for the past year and realise that I always made sure alcohol was in my home for me to drink whereas when I started I would only socially drink when I went out (which again was very rarely - I've only been out  clubbing' three times). I've had an abusive past with a step-father figure and this affects me to this day I have been using alcohol to try and drown these issues and I know I need to stop. Sorry that this is jumping around lots of different topics I'm trying to piece it all together and make sense. I don't even really know what this post is to do but I needed somewhere to vent...My partner has been sober for over a year and a half I am so proud of him. I can't believe that I've become what I tried so hard to steer him away from. I told him that I'm stopping drinking but didn't mention anything about what happened with my  trusted friend'. Not because he would blame me but I just want to move on and I really don't want to be seen as a fragile victim by him. I'm sorry if this isn't the right place to post I'm struggling a lot with understanding it all right now and I hope this is okay. Please delete if not. ..So many of my family members have fallen victim to alcohol abuse and I vowed not to. I can't believe I let myself slip into this pattern. I did not sleep for two days I did not eat at all for two days during the days leading up to this incident. If that wasn't a red flag I don't know what would have made me figure it out. I feel so stupid so naive and so terrible for allowing myself to be in that situation. ..I've decided to stop drinking and engage the counsel of my father psychological support and my partner. I don't think I would be suitable to attend an AA meeting I feel like I may be laughed at. I just want to catch this problem early on and not let this happen again. I can see alcohol easily destroying my study my future career and my relationships with everyone important to me. ..Sorry again I hope I'm okay with posting this. Please remove if it is not appropriate. I just really needed somewhere to write this and I don't think it's appropriate for anywhere else. ..,3,7mp8b8,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7mp8b8/recognising_my_problem/,16,2017-12-28T15:36:13
rpatrick1990,Sober but stuck,I've got a year and a half sober and now the question is  now what? . ..Honestly I'm struggling to find purpose and maintain relationships and I don't know what to do to maintain .Emotional sobriety. How do we continue to grow once we find a return to sanity?,8,7mk67w,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7mk67w/sober_but_stuck/,13,2017-12-27T22:53:54
ncp2017,Considering AA,So I've been considering going to a meeting recently. I've come to the realization that I have a problem after years of high functioning alcohol abuse. I'm a bit worried about attending a meeting not sure what to expect. I wouldn't want to show up to a meeting and not be well received. I'm fully aware that there are others out there that struggle greatly and perhaps more so than myself with alcohol abuse. (My mother being one)...I'm not sure if this is the place to post this or if this is a place to discuss openly about the issues with alcohol one has either. ..Thanks ,5,7mh53z,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7mh53z/considering_aa/,36,2017-12-27T14:24:34
Love_aryaan,Helping partner and myself,Hi Friends..Hope you are doing well. Congrats and at the same time Good Luck for doing your best to stay sober. I know it's a constant struggle but then - where there is a will there's a way...I am here as I needed your inputs and guidance on how do I help my partner and at the same time don't lose myself in the process...Me and my partner are married for close to 8 months. He is a really talented guy with a very good heart. And I am happy to have him. But I am scared that I might lose him to alcoholism...He drinks like once a week or sometime twice. But whenever he does he don't eat anything and is completely wasted..He also takes anxiety medication - celexa..Off late I have noticed that he trembles and is so scared and his body shivers. .I feel it is cognitive difficulty. Not sure if this is common but it definitely puts me completely in a panic mode..He has hurt himself pretty badly many times after drinking and also got a DUI recently..I don't let him drive anymore for his safety . .He is US born and comes from a broken family also his upbringing was rough so I try to be as much understanding and patience with him..But then I see his alcohol issue is draining me mentally emotionally and also financially...About me I come from a conservative Indian background and have never had alcohol in life and haven't seen anyone in my family having alcohol..All these seems so overwhelming for me but I wanna help him and have a happy life with him... I am thinking of the below options:-.a) Request him to start going to AA (Might be hard to start but think is the best option). I will also accompany him..b) Take him to Dr and get medication..I got to know from him Mom that he was taking Antabuse couple of years back. But my partner says it gives him seizures.. Not sure which medication is good - Antabuse Vivitrol or Campral..I do not want to harm him physically or emotionally in the process of helping him...Lastly I wanna take care of myself too. I don't want to leave him but at the same time I don't want to break myself in this struggle...Your experience and inputs will be very helpful...Thanks.#,1,7kg6dz,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7kg6dz/helping_partner_and_myself/,6,2017-12-17T15:32:08
SelfLoatheOfBread,First time trying to stop time has slowed down,I apologize if this doesn't feel like the right sub for this but I'm pretty sure my problems stem more from alcohol than from depression...I'm 31 and have struggled with depression since I was 13. Mental illness runs in my family as does alcoholism. When I was younger I couldn't believe how foolish my aunt was for not taking her meds and self medicating with drugs and alcohol. Flash forward to now when I suddenly realized I'm guilty of exactly the same thing. Sure I've stayed on my meds but every doctor has told me that if I drink just know that the next day will feel like I never took my meds the day before. Well after a 3 year relationship ended on top of being miserable at my job my drinking slowly increased until I couldn't remember a day in recent memory when I hadn't had a drink. Those drinks also progressed from beer and wine to vodka cocktails to gin cocktails until finally I was just sitting here alone drinking straight gin...Last weekend I had a heart-to-heart with my mom about how I'm sick of battling my depression and I wanted to end my life because it's not worth the constant fight. She understood my feelings and obviously told me it would be devastating to her and everyone around me but at least acknowledged where I was coming from. What really struck me though was how proud she was of me for  putting in so much hard work  and  trying so many different things  to beat the depression. That's when it occurred to me that I WASN'T putting in the hard work and that I had just given up a long time ago. I proceeded to drink a bottle of wine and four cocktails after she went to bed and woke up feeling no hangover whatsoever. That was when I decided I had to stop. I had to at least try my hardest before throwing my life away. That was on Sunday and it feels like I've been trying this sober thing for weeks and I can't believe *it's only been 5 days*...I live in NYC and drinking is very much a part of work culture at my company. Everyone drinks in the office on Friday evenings and many work events end at bars. Because everyone uses public transit no one worries about driving or being over the limit which often translated to there being no limit. As long as we made it home it was a successful night. Well I'm proud to say that last night I went to a work event and for the first time turned down the drink bracelet at the door. I was also shocked that I had a great time despite being completely sober. I passed on going out after just because it still feels a bit new for the temptation but I'm still proud of myself. The real test will be next week at our office Christmas party where my usual thought process is  drink as much as possible because it's one of the few things this horrible company will give you for free!  Hopefully this year I can just enjoy the time with my coworkers or head home if it truly is only fun if you're drunk. (Something tells me that's not the case just another excuse I've made to continue my drinking)..I'm hoping the week starts moving faster; I'll feel more optimistic once I've got a full week under my belt..,5,7jthxe,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7jthxe/first_time_trying_to_stop_time_has_slowed_down/,21,2017-12-14T13:23:52
yukijr,I missed work twice this week.,I'm really struggling with anxiety and depression. I just feel miserable about letting my drinking control me. I have kept myself from doing drugs for two weeks (big deal for me) but now my need to drink is back. I feel like the ups and downs are constant.,3,7igrkl,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7igrkl/i_missed_work_twice_this_week/,3,2017-12-08T13:09:41
SoberAlias,Went to My First Meeting Tonight,I have been struggling with alcohol for years now. I always thought of going to AA as giving in and admitting I had a problem which I clearly do. I also associated AA with church. Religion was something I was forced into as a kid and grew to despise. My relationship with the church is in a bad place and I would never associate anything good coming from it. It wasn't until I started reading here that I understood AA isn't all about Jesus...I took probably the biggest step I've taken in my life thus far and went to an AA meeting at a local church tonight. From the minute I parked everyone was super welcoming. The people outside smoking pointed me to the meeting and from there a kind old woman put me next to her and got me set up with a book. The meeting started and they asked if any newcomers would like to introduce themselves. I raised my hand and announced my name and I honestly jumped when then entire room greeted me. Tonight they were finishing the 12 step book and we took turns reading I even read a paragraph. After everyone took turns leading their own personal insight into the reading which happened to be about moving forward with what they have learned and spreading their knowledge to newcomers. I found everything that was said to be extremely insightful into my own problem...After the meeting almost everyone came over to introduce themselves three ladies even gave me their numbers to call/text for any reason. There was only one woman around my age and we spent some time talking after the meeting. She gave me a list of local meetings and pointed out her favorites as well as women only meetings in the area...I left feeling good about myself it was nice to be surrounded by people who weren't judging me or asking any questions they just wanted to help. Next week they will be starting the steps over and I'm hoping to be able to join them from the beginning. Tomorrow I'm going to a young adult AA meeting in my area and I'm hoping to find more people to connect with there.,11,7huzur,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7huzur/went_to_my_first_meeting_tonight/,26,2017-12-05T21:34:16
__MachineGunKenna,Where to draw the line.,I struggled with my sobriety here recently do to my panic disorder. Well I also have been having extreme symptoms of what maybe alcohol withdrawal. I cannot tell if it's just my mood swings and panic disorder or the withdrawal. I was hoping to quit on my own but once I hit 12-24 hour mark I tremble like I've been outside in the freezing cold. I also get irritable and my heart feels like it's coming out of my chest. What also makes me think I'm in withdrawal is because my panic medicine stopped working in my manic episodes. Also as soon as I get one beer in me it all stops? I'm 24 and completely lost on this. I did a stint in rehab back in August and didn't have withdrawal then. It was mostly for my mental health and suicidal tendencies. Any guidance is needed. I've went to my mom and she is consumed in her own life and my father tells me to just pray and go to AA. I feel like I'm hanging on by a thread and no one understands....,2,7h8lg1,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7h8lg1/where_to_draw_the_line/,6,2017-12-03T03:15:59
Ibelieveinphysics,One day at a time,So today there was a social situation high stress and everyone drinking. I struggled extremely hard with my 6 + years of sobriety today...All I told myself is if I could just get through today without a drink I could do this. It took everything in me to not take a drink today. But I did it. Once I got home and the stress was relieved and I wasn't right in the thick of it I was so grateful that I was able to make it through the day without drinking.  I no longer feel that clawing need to drink today...One day at a time. That's all you got to do. Hang on till that feeling goes away and the sanity comes back. ..I know you guys can understand how I felt today. It sucked but I made it. ,12,7h7lbm,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7h7lbm/one_day_at_a_time/,7,2017-12-02T23:04:28
AA_throwaway_7689,Being 13th stepped?,Hey everybody.  I'm an alcoholic and addict who finally took the plunge after a decade of craziness and finally decided I had to do something about it.  I reached out to an old female friend (I'm male) who I knew had gotten sober right after we went to college together and has gotten very much into the AA/recovery community.  I wanted her to help me dispel some of the common complaints I had heard about AA (lots of God stuff cultish atmosphere) that I had always used as an excuse to avoid going and she helped me get past that.  I finally attended my first meeting yesterday on my first day of sobriety.  I was so nervous but I made myself do it and as soon as it started I realized I had nothing to fear.  Afterwards I felt great!  A sense of community and support I have never felt...I was too nervous to share myself and was definitely showing my nervousness in other ways as well (hand wringing and restless legs partially due to some minor withdrawal).  I can only imagine I looked pretty miserable.  I had been told by my friend in recovery to "make some friends!" but I was too nervous to approach anyone...Just after the meeting ended the girl who had been sitting next to me turned to me and asked if it was my first time and offered her phone number and that she would help me stay accountable.  I was thrilled!  People really are as nice and welcoming in AA as I had been told!  We had a brief chat about where we were both from and then parted ways with her telling me she would see me next week.  I left the meeting with confidence for the first time in ten years that I could stay sober and get my life to a place where I was happy.  I texted the girl afterward to thank her for reaching out to me and she replied she was happy to help and was glad we had sat next to each other and that this was the first time she had offered this kind of support to someone.  Sounded innocent enough to me...I then texted my grizzled veteran 10 year sober friend about how great the meeting was and how a nice girl had even given me her number.  She immediately told me this was a red flag and to look up step 13 which I had never heard of before.  As soon as I read the description on-line my heart sank.  Was what I had seen as a nice human gesture of support between two people going through similar struggles really something else?  She assured me that any girl offering her number to a newcomer of the opposite gender  was probably in an even worse state than I am and that I need to avoid this like the plague.  I was in danger of being taken advantage of (not something I had ever even considered before in my life as a guy)...I'm honestly feeling a bit heartbroken that something like this might be the case.  All of that spiritual levity I was feeling yesterday is gone.  I guess my question is if anyone else has had an experience like this either negative or positive getting support from someone of the opposite gender during early recovery?  From what I'm reading online in other places I should take her concerns seriously but I don't want to turn away someone's support if it really was meant genuinely...Sorry for the mini essay.  Reddit is my online home for many things and have learned a lot about other topics here so figured I'd pose this question to you all and see what people think.  Thanks for reading.,4,7gzsvh,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7gzsvh/being_13th_stepped/,14,2017-12-01T20:44:03
katiedominique,Desperate.,Ok - I feel really out of options and I just need some advice and some help I don't know where else to turn. I've taken my mother to the doctor told all of her friends had numerous interventions with the family. She doesn't change. Here's an extremely long story cut short - with all the particularly horrible bits cut out. (when she broke her own leg when strangers practically drag her own after finding her passed out numerous hospital visits and drips pissing herself throwing up etc...) ..I'm 22 I have a brother who is 20 and a sister who is 24. We live with my mum. We have no other family - no aunties no uncles no grandparents no one at all. My dad died when I was 15 because he was an alcoholic and it eventually killed him. This took it's toll on our family but particularly my mum. She started drinking soon after he died but I do have memories of her drinking before this too - just not to such a dangerous extent. She has gotten worse throughout the years and now the situation (and her life) is diabolical. She worked her whole life and now has lost 3 jobs because of her drinking. She is now unemployed and struggling to find work. Me and my siblings pay all of the bills in the house (through fucking hard work and it's difficult - it's hard not to be bitter sometimes). This is a problem because we can't just leave - I've thought about it so many times I want to go to university I've passed all my exams.. But if I leave who will put food in the fridge? Who will pay the mortgage? She will lose the house and have no where to live. She is currently on benefits gets paid every 2 weeks and goes on a massive binge for about a week until she runs out of money and is then sober for a week. And repeat. We have tried every possible way of stopping this taking her bank card taking her purse stopping her going out etc... It doesn't work. ..The main thing I need help with and the reason I am slowing losing my mind finally after all these years is because of the SCREAMING. There isn't another word for it. She gets drunk and screams. All. Night. And. Day. It isn't crying - it's screaming. It isn't words or anything. Just senseless screams. She does it every time she's drunk. She isn't in any physical pain and I don't think it's for attention because when I sit with her and try to calm her down she carries on. Also when she does this she is barely conscious and cannot speak. IT IS DRIVING ME INSANE. There has been multiple night where I cannot sleep until 2am and then it wakes me up at 5am and I have to get up at 7am for work... It's exhausting. She seems fine when she is sober regular withdrawal symptoms of course (shaking sick etc) but mentally ok. She gets anxious but shit so do I. She hasn't always done this - it's a recent development. ..Please please please tell me someone else has experienced this. I can't find anything on google. What is with the screaming? Has she lost her mind? Should I look into getting her sectioned? ,2,7gptwd,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7gptwd/desperate/,6,2017-11-30T16:36:21
jinkies78,Some resentments against the steps-need help,I've gone through the steps once in my first 90 days. I prayed the prayers was open honest and willing. Worked incredibly hard. Made amends to family and stuff like that. I still have no connection to a higher power. I have a major resentment against God. As an adult I found my way into an extremely conservative born-again church. By choice I underwent conversion therapy and attended sex addiction support groups due to my attraction to the same sex which I had never really acted on but believed was a deadly problem. I am angry at God about that. I am very angry at God for making me bisexual and for making me an alcoholic and also for giving me a mother who never loved me. I do believe in God but not that he has any interest in helping me or could run my life any better than I am or that he would like be "nice" to me in any way.  ..In addition to that I am having trouble with step 4. Like I said I already did it once. And I was extremely desperate. I have a year and 10 months at this point. But at the beginning I did whatever I was told without question. So I did a thorough step 4. The thing is as the scapegoat child of a narcissistic alcoholic I took the blame for literally everything. For the mood of every member of the household. I took the blame for every bad day had by anyone. I took the blame for bad weather and bad food and unpaid bills. I was the whipping-girl. And I continue to blame myself for just about everything under the sun. I just see myself as an inferior person at life. I am inadequate in every way possible. And it seems that Step 4 just reinforces this. As far as me determining my role in things. I have blamed myself for everything that has ever happened to me. So....I am not really sure I see the benefit in that. ..My main struggle is dissatisfaction with my life. General discontentment. I go to meetings read the BB have a sponsor but we aren't very close. I've been sober nearly two years. I do not have the desire to drink. But I hate my life and myself. I am also in therapy and I also take anti-depressants. I am sort of at the point where I think I am pretty much stuck where I am and there is no help. ..Any advice is appreciated. ..,3,7g5ew1,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7g5ew1/some_resentments_against_the_stepsneed_help/,38,2017-11-28T11:41:30
pjf72,Struggled with drinking too much these last few years...hypnosis fixed it.,Just thought I'd give my advice on what to do when you're struggling with alcohol addiction...My story isn't one of your typical alcoholic in fact many people have said they don't know what I'm worrying about you hardly drink etc etc. Yet I KNEW it WAS a problem. I was losing too many weekend days from having a hang over going in to work rough at least once or twice per week. I wasn't suffering from any obvious health symptoms but eventually I KNEW I would...I was only drinking perhaps 2-3 times per week BUT I WANTED to drink WAY more than that - I had to force myself to stop everynight. I was only drinking around 25-35 units per week - small fry perhaps to some on here and many people wouldn't associate that with having a problem. But I KNEW I had one - and I was ADDICTED...So I had been thinking about having hypnosis for a while and never really plucked up the courage to go. I'm glad I did though...I went to see a local hypnotist (names/details on request). And she talked to me about my issue(s) not too probing but more of an awareness of what might be underlying any issues (stress abuse money etc etc). Then she started on the hypnotism. At first I wasn't sure if this was really working I had a slightly doubtful feeling but just let it wash over me. At the end she emailed me an MP3 of the session for me to listen to everyday for a month or so...Now before we started she asked me if I wanted to completely give up alcohol or just to reduce it. She warned me that if I chose to go 100% then I will never want to drink again. And also if I went the 'reduce' path then I could well go back to my old ways after a while. So I chose the reduce option and could always go to the 100% if I feel like I want to at a later date...Anyway this was about 5-6 weeks ago and I'm only drinking once per week now approx. 10 units per week. BIG improvement for me. So happy that I spent the  55 on the session. Very impressed with the results...Any questions please feel free to ask..,0,7fmomd,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7fmomd/struggled_with_drinking_too_much_these_last_few/,25,2017-11-26T07:44:28
DBchamp,Speaking under pressure,This isnt a post about sharing your story when asked to speak this is more like speaking in turn in a meetings setting or even being interviewed in a professional setting. ..Been close to four years sober and I still struggle from putting words to thought in my mind I can articulate and make these great connections but whenever I go to speak i flat out draw a blank. ..Early on I attributed it to brain fog anxiety or lack of experience but as years pass I still for the life of me can not articulate a concept verbally or tell a story...One on one situations I do fine and listen and observe for social cues (yes i did once think i could be slightly autistic) but that's just not it...Even when i speak in turn and give my self time and speak slowly and wait for things to come to mind - it just doesn't happen and i end up sitting their awkwardly. ..It's very frustrating not being able to express myself like others can. ..Anybody have a similar experience? ,4,7e5apl,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7e5apl/speaking_under_pressure/,11,2017-11-19T20:40:18
WildSassyFree,Missing meetings and relapsing.,Hello. Im still pretty new to AA. Luckily my city has a lot of different groups. But i suffer from depression too and i feel sometimes going to aa is just so exhausting. Once im there im so happy im there yet i feel myself struggling to get to my meetings. I got so drunk lastnight and feel so sick today. Im tired of relapsing i feel like aa is judging me everytime i relapse but i should know that im not the first person to have relapses. I feel its jusy my paranoia when i tell fellow aa members that i keep failing while everyone else seems to be saying sober. I just feel my life is so boring without alcohol. With my depression nothing is enjoyable sober. Yet i know the more sobriety i have the depression willl get better. I just need to find thay strength to be patient i  know im not gunna feel better immediately. How can i find strength to stay sober? What do you others do?.,5,7e1skr,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7e1skr/missing_meetings_and_relapsing/,9,2017-11-19T12:02:16
soupface2,Counting days (d78)...My sponsor is always cancelling and we didn't talk last night because she was watching tv - Need advice,I met my sponsor at my first meeting I raised my hand and said I needed a sponsor.  Without even getting to know each other we agreed she would be my sponsor and since then we get along well though I don't feel a hugely strong connection to her.  ..From the beginning she said we should talk every other day but due to our schedules it usually ends up being about two phone calls per week plus we meet every Saturday to do step work.  She usually responds if I text her but she rarely initiates texts/calls.  ..But she constantly has to cancel our Saturday meeting.  She has two kids in high school so this Saturday it's her son's basketball game last month she had to take her daughter out of town for something.  In addition a lot of it has been circumstances out of her control she had to leave town for a funeral and during that week we didn't talk much/didn't meet that Saturday. ..A few weeks ago she found out she had fluid around her heart due to a viral infection and was hospitalized for a few days and on bed rest since although she did make our Saturday meeting last weekend.  So she misses maybe 1/3 of our meetings but it's usually for good reason...Anyway last week she told me she's missing this Saturday because she has to be at her sons game so she suggested we find an hour to talk Wednesday (yesterday).  Last night by 9:00pm neither one of us has reached out so I texted asking if she's free to talk tonight or tomorrow.  I left the option open for us to talk  tomorrow  because quite honestly I just didn't think she wanted to hear from me.  She responded that she's watching the finale of her favorite show so we will talk tomorrow (today Thursday)...I woke up last night at 4 am with this bad gut feeling I thought about it the more my gut just says that this isn't working with her for weeks now I have felt like this isn't a good fit for me. ..But any time I think I'll  break up  with her I chicken out I feel guilty.  She tells me all the time how she feels like this was meant to be and like god put me in her life for a reason.  (I should add that I'm agnostic and many of my meetings are humanist meetings which de-emphasize god in favor of the power of the group itself I really like these meetings! It's the first time I've felt at home in AA as an agnostic person.)..I should note that this isn't dire I am doing very well going to meetings daily and this isn't something where I am going to go out and drink tonight if I don't hear from her.  I would rather approach this correctly that call her tonight on impulse.  It's just something I realized last night I am really struggling with. There's a woman in my humanist meetings I really relate to and we talk a lot but I'm scared to ask her advice...I'm worried she will assume I'm basically trying to get her to sponsor me and I'll get rejected. I feel silly.  ..So I'm kinda lost.  Is this normal? Is a sponsor supposed to call ME or am I supposed to be the one to reach out/schedule meetings etc? ..Anyway I think I know what I have to do but I need help particularly in navigating what to say to her. I don't want to upset her humiliate her chew her out (the funeral and health stuff cane as a surprise to her and I don't expect her to ignore her health!) but I dunno. It took me a long time to finally embrace this program in part because I have trust issues and in part because I struggle with the god stuff...so it just feels like this is not a good match...Any advice would be great!,1,7df4qm,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7df4qm/counting_days_d78my_sponsor_is_always_cancelling/,2,2017-11-16T15:13:52
AGentlemanSurvives,What are your favorite inspirational one-liners funny quotes and awesome sayings?,I always hear so many awesome little one-liners and quips in meetings. I say I'm going to write them down and then forget; so thought I would ask all of you. ..For example an old lady in one of my groups always says "If you're really struggling remember: you can always go back to drinking so why not wait until tomorrow?"..Or last night I heard a funny one "Alcoholics think they are simultaneously pieces of shit and the center of the world. The result is a special kind of shit-storm" ...,5,7d5ap7,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7d5ap7/what_are_your_favorite_inspirational_oneliners/,21,2017-11-15T11:39:36
[deleted],My best friend is deeply struggling with alcoholism. I am writing in hopes of gaining some more tips/advice that would help benefit her.,[deleted],6,7ca9ji,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7ca9ji/my_best_friend_is_deeply_struggling_with/,20,2017-11-11T14:02:42
10lovesongs,Limerence in early sobriety,So i'm now 10 days sober after a relapse - going to meetings praying meditating - I've realised after the first few days of feelings up and down - i'm now in a state of Limerence with sobriety - the first flushes of love and infatuation...I notice this and think 'oh well use this energy to get stuck into your recovery'..My sponsor says I've changed and now I seem to be 'getting it' by what i'm sharing...Of course i'm mad being an alcoholic - so I worry - I catastrophise - 'oh God I feel so good so inevitably it will come crashing down' - it's almost a 'speedy' feeling (I've tried most drugs in the past) in that I struggle to sleep (entirely normal at this stage I agree)..I often read early sobriety is miserable and hard work so REALLY did not expect to feel like this?..Anyone else have a similar experience? If so how did it pan out?..Many thanks in advance,10,7bn1g2,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7bn1g2/limerence_in_early_sobriety/,13,2017-11-08T12:56:42
infiniteposs22,Kind of frustrated,My wife and I have been struggling for the last few years. In July she decided that I was an alcoholic and she started to go to Alanon meetings. I will admit that I was drinking a lot. Almost every day as soon as my kids went to bed I would drink until I got sleepy and would go to bed. Since she has told me how bad this bothers her I have stopped drinking. My wife has been struggling with her mental health and has been through a number of medications. She had anxiety and ocd. She has really struggled with me and the kids. If I try and point out what I feel she is doing wrong it turns into a huge fight. I often find myself exasperated and confused because she often ends up telling me that she is frustrated with me and how my drinking destroyed our family and no one know about it but everyone knows about her struggles...I am very worried that she has hung my drinking on all of our problems. I never drove drunk I never got angry and on a handful of occasions argued with her while I was drunk. Never in front of the kids. I am so worried that when me not drinking doesn't produce the desired result she will flame out even worse. Her stress and anxiety is out of control and there is no talking to her about what is going on. I am so confused and scared. She has tried a number of meds over the past few years and none have worked. The one I felt worked the best she was moved off of because her psych wanted to try something better. I feel blamed for all of the problems in our marriage and I am willing to ride that out but I what she has been telling me about Alanon I feel like she is planning on my drinking to return and finish off our marriage. ,1,7bj5bp,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7bj5bp/kind_of_frustrated/,4,2017-11-08T00:00:39
Tgif1234,5+ years sober and I'm still really struggling,Like the title says I have quite a bit of time but it hasn't really gotten better for me. I know I was drinking in a majorly problematic way when I quit. But part of me wonders if it was just youth and a shitty pattern. Am I really an alcoholic? Being around people who drink and do drugs makes me feel so left out and jealous and even when I'm not around people using I wish I could. For my wife it's a hard no. She doesn't want to take the risk and I don't want to lose her so I won't drink but I just wish I could feel good about that decision. ..I hear people in meetings say I was ready. I never wanted to drink again. I had enough. I guess my question is for those of you that didn't feel that way how do you get okay with it? ,21,7bih91,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7bih91/5_years_sober_and_im_still_really_struggling/,37,2017-11-07T21:58:05
Aathrowaway2580,I'm really struggling tonight. I want to go to sleep and not wake up.,I need some words of encouragement. I haven't had a drink in about 4 days and frankly I don't want a drink but residual problems from my constant relapsing are weighing heavy on me right now. ..A little background. My drinking got really heavy about two years ago about a handle of vodka a day. It was a huge strain on my relationship with my wife. Not for me I didn't care. It was tough for my wife. I did 6 weeks of outpatient in February of last year and bought a bottle on my way home from my graduation. I hid it for about 2 months before my wife said "fuck it I don't care." She's never really been to invested in my recovery because I wasn't either. Earlier this year I went back to hiding it getting caught every couple of weeks. ..July of this year she had enough and demanded I go to an inpatient treatment center. I did for 30 days and managed to stay sober for about 6 weeks going to meetings twice daily and working a part time job when I'm capable of much more. I was starting to see those promises the big book talks about but it wasn't enough for me. I had to have a drink. She's caught me numerous times since then threatened divorce took away my credit cards and any access to money aside from my paycheck from my part time job. ..Later I lost my job because I didn't go in one day and I was on a provisional basis because my boss knew I was an alcoholic. I got home that day and told her that I would bust my ass and get a job within a week and I did. I got two job offers (one of which I started today) and I'm going to take the other one once all my background checks go through. I'm getting back to working in an insurance office with pretty good pay. If anything losing the job lit a fire under my ass. Know I know that this little bit of success doesn't erase years of putting her through hell but the way she treats me is starting to wear on me. It's like I don't even want to try because regaining her trust and getting our marriage back to where it was is going to take forever. I don't know if my emotional state can take it much longer. I love her more than anything in the world but I don't know if I can hold on to my sanity much longer. I just want to go to sleep and not wake up. I'm too chicken shit to kill myself but it hurts so much to live like this. I know that if she leaves me I'll drink myself to death within weeks. ..I'm feeling worthless even though things are going well in some aspects of my life. ..I guess to wrap it up I know I deserve the way she treats me but I can't even get a "Hey good job on getting out there and getting not one but two jobs." It's just harrassment and knocking me down. I just need some encouragement.,6,7baxzq,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7baxzq/im_really_struggling_tonight_i_want_to_go_to/,7,2017-11-06T23:46:39
jerrysam,6 Years Grateful and Stoked!,Wow what a journey this past year has been! I've heard so many people share that @ 5yrs things started to get stale in their programs. I took that as an invitation to dive even deeper into all three legacies of my program. Recovery: Ive taken on x4 men as sponsees... All in varying places of their own recovery. Unity: Iv been blessed to carry multiple commitments at multiple homegroups and continue to show up to the business meetings to participate in our group conscience. Service: I am rotating out as our District DCM and am currently our Area Alt. Delegate Elect... I'm stoked and enthused with a fun vision for what that might look and feel like and ever thinking of those that are out there and who the hand of AA might reach. To this wonderful fellowship which is we us and ours: Thank You!!! Thank you for the safe space to make mistakes and the encouragement to thank God for them all; for the friendships and the many amends that have grown me as a man; for the vision and life in love that is so completely different than the pain suffering and struggle that was true only a few years ago. Thank you to this sub for its continuing spirit of support! I have read from this sub at multiple levels in Recovery Unity and Service and it has always been inspiring. Cheers and blessings!,21,7b5is0,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7b5is0/6_years_grateful_and_stoked/,4,2017-11-06T09:40:46
whatlogic,Almost 2 years now field report...,I see a lot of new folks here and felt it might be helpful to share a bit.  Am going to sort of summarize quickly my experience so far...Started program @ 36 yrs old.  Moderate led to heavy then to daily then to nearly round the clock.  Couldn't continue living with it couldn't imagine living without...Bout of severe DTs and I finally said help...Didn't have any real faith and my only impression of AA was second hand accounts and believing failure rates and discrediting info from the internet.  But doctors and detox said 90 meetings in 90 days.  I was desperate enough now to try anything...I went to a meeting shaking and filled with worry and doubt.  Crawling in my skin. ..I didn't drink that night.  I just had to make it another minute hour struggle.  But tiny glimmer of hope I could last til next meeting. ..Repeat. Brain clearing enough to recognize the real sober people and those struggling. ..30 days.  I keep that chip in my wallet most important moment in my life next to my children's birth.  That serenity prayer I still repeat over and over to fall asleep. ..90 days.  I don't know what is happening but I think maybe this is what a miracle actually is.  It is for a drunk like me...Got a sponsor.  Started meditation told whatever sliver of God I once had that it was time to become something greater.  Infinity.  No more limitations based on crap I thought I knew...Faced step 4 and 5.  The evidence these AAs had something that I couldn't do on my own was there.  DO IT.  Nothing to lose potentially more to gain...Zero obsession to drink. But still dealing with my old selfish ways. My problems fears anxiety reshaped into challenges to grow from and not be avoided...Remaining steps essentially continue as a lifelong process.   Initially though we work through them with our sponsor and fellow alcoholics...Year 1 to now.  Discovering all sorts of different spiritual paths concepts love soul.  Compassion is like fuel now.  I thought service was going to be some kind of chore but really this feeling now is so good I want to help other people suffering feel how amazing it can be to escape the darkness too...My change in thinking and outlook is so vastly different just thinking back on memories is like staring into chaos.  My personal sort of awakening I'd have to best describe as waking up from the Matrix...I am so glad AA washed my damn brain it needed it.  There is more to the story but that's the quick and dirty. ..Failure is only not working the steps as the book suggests.  It's a wonderfully distilled and action based spiritual program.  All the steps and most ideas my ego screamed against doing.  But all I have to do any given day is drink to throw it all away go right back to my old misery.  That darkness is always waiting but today at this moment I have a choice now. ..Just do the next right thing it will all work out...Good luck to anyone willing to try.  Heaven is on this earth we just have a sickness that doesn't want us to see it...MY experience.  Results may vary batteries not included may contain small parts. Peace. ,6,7a1ad7,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7a1ad7/almost_2_years_now_field_report/,5,2017-11-01T00:03:09
jfny212,Concerns about AA,Alcohol has set me back for years. My grandfather and father had a huge problem with their drinking so i'm going to go on a whim here and say they passed on "the gene". It's been a struggle for me and has affected my relationships especially the one with my girlfriend who has stuck by my side for the last 3 years and put up with my drunken stupor. I've put myself in so many bad situations while drinking; situations that have given me so much guilt. I'm 27 years old and don't think I've ever gone more than a week or so without getting drunk. Typing this out really helps me realize how bad the situation has become how much money I've wasted and opportunities I've destroyed. I was recently prescribed Naltrexone which helps to stop the urges to drink. The side effects suck so I try not to take it. My concern with AA is the dropout rate I think it's comforting to go and speak with people who can relate to your situation but looking at the history and success rate it's something that turns me off. MY father is in AA and has been sober for over ten years but I'd like to consider him a dry drunk; it's a sad situation. I'm doing my best to stay off the sauce for a while and get my shit together and if I do ever decide to drink in the future I will utilize the Naltrexone I have. I have been reading about the "Sinclair Method". It's a very interesting read and the success rate is higher. To each their own ? ,8,77wan9,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/77wan9/concerns_about_aa/,41,2017-10-21T17:54:47
MikeBrodyComic,I'm a stand-up comedian in AA,Hi everybody -..I'm a professional stand-up comedian based in Minneapolis MN and a Friend of Bill. I've suffered from anxiety with bouts of depression my whole life. It's actually very common in comedians to have those types of issues as well as addiction issues... .I'm putting out a new comedy album that is really unique   it has lighthearted moments but touches heavy moments as well - my depression/suicidal thoughts relapsing sobriety and recovery. I have a big part just about AA and how crazy we are (in a good way). It's available for preorder now on iTunes and Amazon. You can read about it more here:. .http://www.laughspin.com/exclusive-listen-to-two-tracks-from-mike-brody-album-sell-me-a-bridge-out-oct-27/. .I'm super proud to be putting this out into the world and I think that anyone who has struggled with these issues with laugh and relate to the material.,4,77c1yg,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/77c1yg/im_a_standup_comedian_in_aa/,24,2017-10-18T23:54:52
DirtyFerdi,Am I too picky with my sponsor?,So I am feeling as though I'm building a resentment with my sponsor. Someone said to me If your sponsor doesnt make your 4th step their not doing it right. Haha right? But I'm not sure this is what they meant. ..Also! This is my 4th sponsor already and I feel as though perhaps I am being too picky or maybe I can't stay with one Becasue it's my way of putting the real work off. However I don't THINK that's the case. My first sponsor relapsed her sponsor took me on but she has so many sponsees and it was clear she took me Becasue she felt obligated too and clearly didn't have much time to work with me. I grabbed someone else real quick so I could get out of that situation sponsor #3 who I left because I think I grabbed her just to get out of situation #2 and it became clear quickly her sobriety was pretty anger-fueled which I did not want. So I got #4 who is very sweet but seemed really gung-ho to sponsor me but now it seems like she doesn't have the time or the drive I feel like I need. ..I think I'm very good at seeming ok when I am not so perhaps that's why she is moving so slowly. We have only done step one so far (incredibly thoroughly) but we have been together for almost two months. She continually reschedules and does not seem appropriately responsive when I try to tell her I am struggling. I was having a freak out this weekend and felt the closest to drinking than I have since I've gotten here and when I told her this via text (i was on a 3 hour bus ride sitting next to a normie friend and couldnt call her) she gave me a pretty short response back and told me that going to a meeting and asking for help would be the right thing to do. She didn't follow up with me at all about it or text me back when I said "ok". ..Her nonchalant attitude seeming to not have the time and how slowly We are going through the steps is what make me want to find a new sponsor. She's really nice though and I think sensitive and I dont want to hurt her feelings. I also feel like a flake if I breakup with ANOTHER sponsor. But I feel like my sobriety is suffering By staying with her. ..I'm going to meet with her today finally and I think tell her my concerns and see how she responds. ..Thanks for letting me post here. I think I just needed to get my thoughts out somewhere but if anyone has anything related or advice I'd love to hear it.,2,7783yt,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/7783yt/am_i_too_picky_with_my_sponsor/,13,2017-10-18T13:23:48
FinishedMyChores,I don't know what to do. So deeply miserable. Rant.,Drinking killed my dad via cirrhosis cigarettes killed my mom via lung cancer. I was too young to lose them when I did and now I'm a slave to both of their vices still carrying the grief amplifying the guilt. In a horrible swirl of trying to drown out the lingering pain using the same instruments that caused them and I this pain.  .  .I have a job that pays a lot put me well past where I ever thought I could be financially. However I work far from home 1/2 to 3/4ths of my life is spent at work I've been at it for years and I'm beginning to feel "Institutionalized." Work is the safe place now although I do find ways to get hammered there off hours. At home I keep myself obliterated. Just driving alcohol and music into myself to try to reconnect with being a human again. That's how it feels. I get a week a month to try to be human again and then I have to go back to being organic machinery.   .  .I don't do anything I love anymore. Everything I think I can do to add personal depth to my life becomes a brief glimmer that I acquire and promptly put down to get hammered. Can't seem to make myself do anything unless I can drink while I'm at it. I want to quit my job so so badly and get help have time process. I never had that time. My mom went first my dad summarily fucked the whole family financially and we've all struggled since all of us in survival mode none of us with time to sort it out. I'm so afraid of being poor and stuck. It's scary shit being poor I've been there and I'm grinding myself into dust to protect myself from being there again. So in that regard I'm not winning in any way..  .I have to go back to work soon. My stomach is already in knots. All I want to do is stop. Stop the world take a breath and not be pulled or pushed not be living just to keep living because I'm still living. .  .I just had to vent. Thank you for reading those of you who did.,13,76s84s,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/76s84s/i_dont_know_what_to_do_so_deeply_miserable_rant/,21,2017-10-16T13:49:55
jellie199620,I don't know how to remain sober,For the past month I have been sober from alcohol and other drugs. I have felt great and my mind has been the clearest it has been in a while. But I am always craving something...For the first time in a long time I have been able to say no to drinking and feel like I can actually stick to my decision to not drink...I struggle however with remaining sober from everything else. Like today for instance I wanted a drink bad but instead went and got diazepam and took 4 10mg tablets. It is honestly like I cannot resist. ..I want to be able to enjoy just being sober but I constantly feel like I have to be in an altered state to be happy. I don't know what to do. I don't understand why I can't just be happy being sober and why I always feel I have to have a release either through alcohol or other drugs...How do you find a drive to stay sober from everything. I don't want to be addict but for some reason there is just something in my head I can't shut off that is constantly craving an altered state. It is honestly like a little voice in my mind telling me not to take anything then an even stronger voice yelling that I have too. I always feel so much guilt when I give into my cravings..,6,76qbls,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/76qbls/i_dont_know_how_to_remain_sober/,10,2017-10-16T09:03:31
myworkhandle,Facing repercussions and eating humility,So I've been struggling with relapse repeatedly since getting back into the rooms a few months back.  So much to the point that last week I was drunk 6 of 7 days including 2 days of drinking AT WORK.  As if I didn't learn my lesson from recently getting fired from my previous job on account of my drinking- related bullshit.   ..I neglected to do a system check which now throws some data in question.   It's a first time  and minor mistake but one that will cause some documentation to be filed noting my negligence.   These things happen to everyone but I especially internalize failure (like a true alcoholic amirite?)  and now with even more remorse because I know alcohol was involved.  ..And though I now have 3 days sober again and felt on top of the world yesterday I have to accept my short-comings  admit to them and walk through the consequences like an adult.  ..I heard so many good things at the meeting I attended last night- if I hadn't gone I could be taking this a lot worse.   In fact I may have even lied to try and cover this up which in reality would be 1000000x worse than what I did/didn't do.  ..I'll keep coming back.  Thanks for being there everyone.  I need your support more than I can rationalize so I need to just believe it with faith.,3,75pr17,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/75pr17/facing_repercussions_and_eating_humility/,0,2017-10-11T11:21:05
ajwesten,3 years sober/My very first relapse,Backstory:..I am an alcoholic .I have been sober for three years. Until now. Last night is my only night off which is the night I go to dinner with my mom. This happens every week for the past year or so and we normally meet up choose where she would like me to take her for dinner then we eat after our meal we always go to the local bar (my second home when I drank and where most of my good friends usually hang about). I have NEVER broken my sobriety in 3 years because when my mom drinks at the bar and socializes with friends I spend my time playing pool and hanging out with my friends. It has never been an issue refraining from alcohol while at the bar because all of my friends are supportive and don't even offer. ..Where my night begins ..I met up with my mom at her house and we did the usual and struggled to pick where we were going. Once we picked we headed off to a restaurant close by. I listen to the weekly gossip and my mom catching me up about the family. After dinner we headed to the bar and it was unusually busy for the Thursday night. One of my best friends came home from the military and I completely blanked that I was invited to his welcoming home gathering at the bar. Perfect I get to have a chat with my mother and show up to the party! So long story short my mom wanted to go home a few hours later (10pm) so I dropped her off at her house right down the street and headed back to celebrate with my friends. Like I said all of my friends are respectful of my sobriety so there was never a problem with pressure to drink. After hanging out for another hour or two most of the guys left and it's was just the close circle of about five guys. We've have all been close friends for 12 years (freshman in high school). We are all pretty much brothers from another motha. We did our fair share of partying and getting into trouble. So I am playing pool shootin the shit and teasing each other as usual and then it pretty much goes black from then on out. ..Turns out my friend from the military challenged me that I couldn't out drink him. In our group I was the one who drank excessive amounts of alcohol ever time we hung out and this particular friend was the one who we always teased for being a lightweight and always the first one passed out. Apparently the first 10 times he challenged me I said fuck off no way because 1. I'm sober and 2. I didn't believe him. I apparently beside my side that he actually thought he could out drink me. Turns out I can still out drink everyone in my group haha but he has gotten better. Then we started with one full bottle of Markers Mark whiskey each and whoever finished it first won. Don't ask me why because I don't know. I guess I justified it by saying only once because he is home and I could never see him again. I guess I had a fucking awesome night and had a killer time. One of my other good friends is the bartender so he locked the doors and let us stay after last call (2am I was trashed by then). At about 4am I was one bottle of makers mark 2 vodka sodas and two IPA's deep. We decided to head home right after 4 so they called an Uber but I decided to walk to my moms house to sleep. This morning I woke up at sitting in my bathtub completely hungover and still a little drunk and feeling the biggest feeling of regret. I feel completely defeated. Something I was so passionate about I just blew it all away just because. I know I had a great fucking time with my friends but we always do I didn't need alcohol for the fun. I am definitely paying for it today. But whatever day one again. Time to start over. ..,1,71to4o,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/71to4o/3_years_sobermy_very_first_relapse/,4,2017-09-22T16:16:27
Derkenoff,High-bottom young person - I have a year sober (again),So I wanted to make a post for three reasons:..1) to suggest to people who might be exploring this page that you don't need a dui or jail or homelessness or to lose a job etc to be an alcoholic. When I first got sober at 19 I was at a prestigious university full time and working part time and had lots of hobbies/friends. I realized I needed to get sober because I was empty inside. I had lost my spirit and I began to obsess over drinking/using whenever I wasn't intoxicated. You don't need to keep going down the path your on that might lead to institutions or jails if you're struggling with substance (ab)use if you get really quite with yourself you might realize on some level you cannot be your best self using/drinking...2) getting sober while young can be awesome. I have so many amazing friends from the program who are my age and who more importantly I relate to. My biggest concern about getting sober was "what will I do now for fun?!?" Which probably indicated I had a problem. But after a couple months sober I felt comfortable in my skin I could be myself again and there are so many great things to do all of the time that I can't keep up. ..3) if you relapse (or need more "research") you can ALWAYS go back and be welcomed openly..I had 4 years sober and then 1.5 years ago I relapsed. Because I was a "high bottom drunk" and I thought "maybe my issue was with drugs but I don't think I was really an alcoholic" I did more research. The thing is if you're obsessed about whether or not you're an alcoholic drinking is going to suck... it will never feel right. After 6 month of drinking my life was legit falling apart but it was insane how much power and serenity came getting honest that I was an alcoholic with the people I am close to. I thought I was going to need rehab for the first time because I couldn't stop drinking but right after I told the 3 most important people in my life "I am an alcoholic" and went to a meeting and told a room of understanding people "I am an alcoholic" the obsession was gone. ..If you could see where my life was a year ago and where it is now you would be shocked. If you think you might have a drinking problem go to a meeting and listen. .,16,71rt03,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/71rt03/highbottom_young_person_i_have_a_year_sober_again/,10,2017-09-22T11:41:36
gratefulnotdead,First Post. Day 2. My username says it all.,As a huge Grateful Dead fan and someone who has escaped death more times than I can count I thought this would be the most fitting username I could choose. ..I really want to get back into journalling my sobriety journey so here are my random thoughts from the last week one that has been a whirlwind of ups and downs. I've been in and out of the rooms for a little over 3 years now. Two trips to rehab. Multiple felony arrests flatline overdoses blah blah blah war story shit no one wants to hear. I earned my fucking seat at the tables let's just put it that way. The longest period of sobriety I had was a year but it was a joke. I wasn't the spiritual guru I was leading people to believe I was and I got more of a rush into tricking people into thinking I worked a solid program rather than the actual relief I felt from two real months of working a real program later on. That's a story for another day though...A month ago I moved to a new city from the college town I lived in for 7 years. A town I fell in and out of love in with more times than my dog licks his balls every day. I had to get out because *of course* it was the town's fault that I couldn't stay sober not mine. You know how that story goes we all know the mind-altering substances always beat you to the airport before you even get off the plane...Life went from being terrible to just okay. I was managing. I said fuck AA I can live off marijuana maintenance and be just okay for the rest of my life. I ended up getting an amazing job my dream job ironically partly because one of my hiring project managers is in the program herself and I lied to her about how much time I had. ..Two weeks into my job I get a drug test and have to explain to this exact person in the program why I may or may not have failed the test. I make up a bullshit relapse story. She understands tells me to expect to be randomly tested again at some point. Can't smoke pot? No big deal at least I can go back to my old trusted friends alcohol and Xanax. A week later I have to go see my good ol' PO. I walk in there all high and mighty dressed up in my best suit thinking that will trick them not to drop the dreaded UA on me. **Boy was I wrong** ..I drop dirty. I plead with her not to violate me. *Ayyyyyy lemme get uhhhhhh the most desperate foxhole prayer ever please.* That's basically what I sounded like. ..Fuck it. I'm getting drunk. And I'm not going to work. I'm going to drink like I'm a wounded Civil War private and the surgeon is on his way with a rusty saw to cut my right leg off. Two days go by I'm still not at work and payday hits. For those of us alcoholics who use other hard substances you know how that story goes. My bender goes from that of a functioning buzzed Buzz Aldrin in Cape Canaveral to a strung out John Belushi stumbling on the set of Saturday Night Live in a matter of minutes. Before I even know it time has passed so quickly I realize I have to see my PO again in a few days. *I'm so fucked*..I wish I could tell you what it was but for the very first time in my drinking career I had actually had enough. Definitely not enough money or self-esteem but enough of the bullshit I've been putting my family my friends my co-workers and myself through. I had the exact experience that was talked about in the Big Book the same ones I scoffed at every time I read in a meeting or tried to share about half-heartedly to impress some newcomer. It was just like this excerpt from As Bill Sees It in today's Daily Reflections which I am so grateful I took the time to read this morning when I woke up:.&gt; "We admitted we couldn't lick alcohol with our own remaining resources and so we accepted the further fact that dependence upon a Higher Power (if only our A.A. group) could do this hitherto impossible job. The moment we were able to accept these facts fully our release from the alcohol compulsion had begun."..But this time was different than all the other times I felt that dreaded impending sense of doom. No more foxhole prayers. I got up and did something about it. I made calls. I was honest with others and most importantly myself. And you know what? Everything turned out *alright.* Not the exact way I wanted it to but that's just fine. I got another chance at life today and tomorrow I get another chance too. And that's fucking awesome. ..There's something this last week that hit me pretty hard and made me realize just how oblivious I am as an alcoholic to how my actions affect the ones I love. Last night into the early morning I had a very deep conversation with two of my normie roommate friends about the things going on in our lives. My one roommate whose father passed away unexpectedly just two weeks ago looks at me after I poured my heart out about my recent struggles. He said and I'll paraphrase this:..&gt; "The other day I had to walk into a church filled with hundreds of people mourning my father. I didn't expect that I would have had to do that so soon I thought that'd come way later in life. I don't want yours to be the next one I experience that feeling at." ..This has been a crazy emotional week for me. I only have two days sober but I have learned so much about myself and so much about what I need to do to get my life back on track. I have a great job a loving family caring friends an amazing dog and everything in the world to live for. ..I plan on coming to this subreddit a lot in addition to going to meetings just so I can remind myself of that every single day because when you're an alcoholic it's super easy to get caught up in the chaos of life and forget about all these wonderful things. As my old sponsor used to sign off after every telephone conversation we had where I was being a whiney spoiled jerk: *Find some gratitude asshole.*..,5,71900a,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/71900a/first_post_day_2_my_username_says_it_all/,7,2017-09-20T01:28:52
throwawayorlandoguy,I think that tonight is the night. I'm a lucky bastard.,Full disclosure I'm still a little bit lit. I have kids they're young kids. They weren't in my car. I'm a lucky bastard. ..I know when i've "had too much" and I know how to handle whatever I've had. I've also been struggling with the reality of my situation  I know that I can't keep doing this. I can't possibly carry on my daily life being "a little bit" or "a lotta bit" lit. I need to stop. This is not good for me...I'm married to a wonderful woman. I have three wonderful young children. I've been partying like there's no tomorrow for longer than I can remember and tonight it finally hit home...I'm a lucky bastard...I rear ended someone tonight. I owned it and stopped immediately. They had a kid in the car. I was crushed. The kid was fine I think. He was asleep. My car took the brunt of the crash. I failed the field test. I had a story. I also had a nearby relative meet me at the scene. I went home with them and got a minor ticket...I'm a lucky bastard...I can't keep doing this. I long for excitement and difference. I am usually the first to jump out of my car to help stranded or injured people. I pressured my friend to take me to Texas with his boat last week to try and save people. I walked the streets today moving branches out of the road so people could pass after the hurricane. I did all of this "a little bit" lit. ..I am a lucky bastard...I know it's time to stop. I can't keep living like this. Alcohol narcissism and a lack of fucks killed my dad. I am headed in that direction but my wife still loves me. My kids still love me. They're great kids. I make them smile I make them laugh I'm still allowed to sleep in the same bed with my wife (except for tonight because she had to talk to a very chill and very awesome officer who was either naive and believed my bullshit or saw through it and realized that today was the day for me)...I'm a lucky bastard...My youngest just woke up while I was writing this. He's in my arm. I don't want to lose him and I don't want him to lose me...I AM A LUCKY BASTARD. ..I needed to get this off my chest. This disease took everything from my dad. It took my dad from me my brother and my mom. He was a good person but he was flawed. I thought I could manage my drive for excitement and danger and disregard for the world around me BETTER than he did. I hit the wall tonight I made a mistake in my car I hit someone else I called the right people and I got away with it...I am a lucky bastard...I can't rely on that luck anymore. I think its time to make a change. ..My wife took my keys my phone and my wallet tonight. I couldn't find a meeting within walking distance TONIGHT. But that's probably for the best. Like I said I'm still a little bit lit. I'll be stone cold sober tomorrow when I make my way to a meeting tomorrow...But I'm a lucky bastard...Thank you for reading this. My name is Lee and I'm an alcoholic.,17,6zkd8b,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6zkd8b/i_think_that_tonight_is_the_night_im_a_lucky/,7,2017-09-11T23:07:24
bigkatt666777,81 days clean and sober today. Struggling a bit.,I have refrained from all drugs and alcohol for 81 days now. I got out of rehab 61 days ago and have been attending lots of AA meetings. Some NA as well. The AA meetings included opening the meeting making coffee etc for the month of August...In addition I have been getting some of my compulsive overeating under control...I made my home group Sunday morning AA meeting today and am going to an NA meeting in a few hours. Today I have just had a strange feeling. ..My day started off by thinking that I had $100 taken from my wallet - I have come to find out that it was not taken so that should have made me happy. But the fury I felt when I thought someone ripped me off has seemed to stick with me today...I have somewhat of a "honey do" list today and I feel like I am holding a grudge. She had the day off yesterday - and I am wondering why none of these things on the list got done by her yesterday...In reality I am far from sexist NEED to stay busy and want a clean house just as much as the next guy. So although I KNOW I should just get off my ass and do things I don't really like being asked. ..I am just using this sub as a safe place to vent. I get really angry sometimes. I used to TALK TALK TALK TALK and it was ALL bullshit. Now that I am sober I like solidarity I like silence I can think. And now it seems that no one around me shuts the heck up....ever...More than anything I feel better because I am actually typing these feelings out as compared to pissing and moaning to my s/o or anyone else...I am sure these are just growing pains...I seem to easily forget how often I would drink 2 fifths of whiskey and watch cartoons after calling in sick to work. I'm sure that didn't impress my s/o very much...I am relatively healthy clean and sober and have a lot to be grateful for...Why the heck do I get this way sometimes?..Anyway thanks for hearing me out...Off to an NA meeting in a few hours.,16,6za19q,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6za19q/81_days_clean_and_sober_today_struggling_a_bit/,9,2017-09-10T14:46:27
BigDoughyAsshole,Stuck. Yet again.,So I've gotten myself into a pickle yet again. I've been clean from opiates since February and had a bit of time where I was totally sober. However a few months ago I managed to convince myself that it was okay to get hammered one night when I was really struggling emotionally. After that it started happening every 2 weeks or so.  Every time I'd drink I'd be absolutely fucking horrified I did it again and desperately resolve myself not to drink again and then hit meetings for a few days. Inevitably it started getting hard to get myself to go to meetings and my willingness to do the work would fade in a few days. ..Cut to a week ago haven't drank in maybe 2 or 3 weeks. I end up with a little bit of weed and smoked it over a 4 day period. Each time I did I would be met with earth shattering anxiety and it would become absolutely crystal clear how fucked I am and how badly I've been messing up lately. How I've been playing with fire given my history of drug use binge drinking and rehabs. I would be absolutely miserable horrified with myself resolve to quit and get with a sponsor the next day and would sometimes even wake up with that same resolve to get back into AA. Then at some point in the day I completely convince myself to do it again. It's happened so many times now that I pretty much just know it's going to happen and can do nothing to stop it. The resolve to stay sober just fizzles out until I get fucked up which it then comes back...Yesterday I had thrown out everything that I had left and hit a meeting leaving it feeling pretty good about things and like I could stay sober that night. Some time after I got home I found myself asking for a little bit of weed from somebody I know. Went back home again and proceeded to absolutely freak out over the fact that it happened again. And guess what? The same exact thing happened again two hours ago. This is the same thing that happened when I tried to stop opiates in the past and here it is happening again with something as "harmless" as weed. Well shit....I have a full awareness of the fact that I'm an alcoholic and an addict. I also have a great deal of faith that the program will work for me and am absolutely desperate for it to work because if it doesn't I'm going to die an addicts death. I just don't know how to make it through the first few days while I begin going through the steps. I met with a sponsor today and he's ready to start taking me through the work again but now I'm not entirely sure I'll be able to stay sober long enough to make that happen.,4,6yz6bp,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6yz6bp/stuck_yet_again/,8,2017-09-08T22:00:08
kschmidt62226,Why is it so difficult yet easy to throw away sobriety?,I'm struggling here and just wanted to I guess vent!  I'm waiting for a friend to take me to an AA meeting.  I guess it's a rhetorical question; we've all been there!  Still it's so easy for me to say (to the guy when he shows up): "Leave me alone!" etc...Yet on the other hand the man coming to my house is my savior!..Pardon me for treating the sub as an AA meeting; I just wanted to say that.,4,6yrdor,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6yrdor/why_is_it_so_difficult_yet_easy_to_throw_away/,5,2017-09-07T20:38:15
selenadahmer,No desire to drink but wow are the people around me really testing me,I have tried my best to change my lifestyle since January I stopped going to bars I stopped buying alcohol and I don't hangout with literally anyone anymore. I just keep to myself go to work and hangout with my young nieces. My parents however still treat me like I'm 16 and try putting a "curfew" on me of 10pm. And if I'm not home by 10 the harassing phone calls come pouring in. At 24 about to be 25 all I want is to be able to just hangout with my friends after working 40 hours a week but I can't. My parents want me to stay within eye sight or be at the gym. Which is understandable after my 3 years of struggling with my drinking. But today after work I decide to go watch a movie and have pizza with a friend. When I got home at 11:15 after they blew my phone up demanding I get home my mom SNIFFED me when I got home and accused me of being drunk. MIGHT AS WELL DRINK IF NO ONE BELIEVES IM BEING SOBER.  ,7,6xk9tl,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6xk9tl/no_desire_to_drink_but_wow_are_the_people_around/,14,2017-09-02T02:43:03
Austin_O97,I'm going to relapse tonight,I'm struggling hard right now. I've already got the alcohol. Haven't drank any. But it's killing me. I want it so badly. Someone have any advice??? I know I'm going to regret it in the morning. ,8,6xi47k,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6xi47k/im_going_to_relapse_tonight/,41,2017-09-01T18:51:56
roxybruinenberg,The harsh realization,I've always looked at people who were classified as an "alcoholic" were people who would wake up in the morning and have a drink as their morning ritual and would drink through out the day that was just what I was taught at least my mom has a drink maybe once every two weeks and has two sips if that my dad hardly drank either because he had too much going on like owning 4 businesses and still trying to find time to enjoy the smaller things in life I worked around alcohol for a long time being a bartender and would only drink after work a few times but nothing drastic that would make me concerned for my own health and then I moved to the states made some friends who I wouldn't say had the greatest influence on me I began drinking heavily but only ever on the weekend but getting drunk to the point of waking up with three hours of sleep (if that) and not remembering a dam thing I did the night before and slowly struggling to make it through the day before the clock struck evening and then we would be at the bars again hopping from one to another getting any guy to buy us a drink and randomly vanishing from the scene before they realized we were only using them for one thing free Booz. The things I did still surprise me to this day that nothing bad ever happened to me (thank goodness for that) getting into cars with people I didn't know falling over and waking up with big bruises through out my body and hooking up with multiple guys in less then 6 hours sleeping any where I found fit through my intoxicated eyes I viewed this behavior as normality because what person in their twenties doesn't like to party and drink? Some mornings I would wake up and say to myself that this was the last of it I hated the feeling of being drained having no energy to do anything other then sit in a bed and watch movies trying to sleep trying to ease my hangover but nothing would fix it except of course the obvious term "hair of the dog"  so I did and by having one drink it led to more and for the person I am I have no limit I drink even though I'm drunk (because that was the purpose) to feel ontop of the world even if it was for a few hours smoking with it only gave you a higher rush and so the weekends persisted like this and soon it was routine. My boyfriend and I like to drink to excess I would say for any normal person and I think it's because we both like to be this confident person and chat with every body and be the crowd pleaser. It's only a few nights ago that I really got a fright I've been having difficulty sleeping I wake up randomly only after a few hours of sleep and my body automatically goes to awake mode and then I'm stuck thinking about ways I could fall asleep the other night I took a swig of whiskey that foul taste burned through my throat as it made its way down to my stomach and poor liver I got what I aimed for I fell asleep but the next day felt like a zombie the same thing occurred this morning so I thought downing a drink filled with a double shot of vodka to my surprise there was no buzz and even more awareness I think writing this is making me realize that there is something not right and I need to fix what I have Broken my plan is to not have a drink for 30 days (that's the aim) to see if I am capable  im sure all of you reading this will think that 30 day fix is definitely not the answer but I feel making a short term goal will lead me to a big term one and it will help me with my binge drinking problem. Here's to the first day of being sober and I will write every day to help you guys follow my progress I hope to overcome this and I feel this is the first step in doing so. Each day I will tell you the horror stories of what I did and how I'm overcoming it. ,2,6xeifl,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6xeifl/the_harsh_realization/,5,2017-09-01T09:28:13
carlje,Shameful things you do while drinking,I'm having trouble dealing with the shameful things I've done when drinking. My issues with men trigger my drinking and I end up having unprotected sex with people I don't know being irresponsible with contraception calling or texting abuse to everyone from ex boyfriends to people I dated. The latter is worse because ex's know what I'm like people I date don't and end up hating me. I'm usually a nice person and I'm so ashamed by the things I've said. I've been drinking more and more and can go through a bottle of vodka in a day. After my last round of abuse I decided to go to AA for the first time and I've taken the first step. I'm just struggling with this shame that makes me want to drink to forget it but I know I'll do something again when I drink and the cycle forever continues. ,2,6xcetc,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6xcetc/shameful_things_you_do_while_drinking/,12,2017-09-01T00:56:09
wmason49,Hello my name is Wes and I'm a alcoholic. I've been going strong now for at least 6 years a 8-10 beers a day. I want to quit but I don't know how. My body is growing tired from it my overall mentality is weak. I have a beautiful wife and daughter and my wife struggles with the fact I drink. Help.,,6,6w3gxc,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6w3gxc/hello_my_name_is_wes_and_im_a_alcoholic_ive_been/,22,2017-08-25T23:41:36
reallyreilly_951,Can somebody please just talk to me today,I'm struggling and need some support today. I'm trying so hard to stop and just need someone.,12,6uxeye,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6uxeye/can_somebody_please_just_talk_to_me_today/,12,2017-08-20T14:37:13
alexaisg,140 days sober and the feelings of past actions are hitting me hard..,after being addicted to different substances and alcohol for the past 12ish years....AA has become my run to place this week. I haven't wanted a drink since I quit cold turkey March 31st of this year...A little back story on my life:.-came from a broken home (sperm donor was and still is a raging alcoholic and heroin addict).-started being sexually abused at the age of 6 up until I was 11..-at 9 years old I started cutting myself avidly for the next 5 years.-at age 12 I broke my ankle and started developing ovarian cysts. Cue the beginning of my vicodin addiction that lasted 2 years.-got super wasted at the age of 14 and had been drinking ever since except for 9 months at the age of 16 due to becoming pregnant with my son..After all of this I went through two bad breakups. The first was from my sons dad.. I blamed him.. For everything. He wasn't perfect... Cheated and lied. But I always took him back. Always forgave. Even after i caught him IN BED with another woman. And I blame myself now because had I been sober I would've let him leave before we ever hit a rough patch. I've realized that when he and I got together at the age of 15 and 16 years old.. I was trying so hard to have some control of my crazy life that I dragged him into my world of destruction and sadness thinking he could fix me. That wasn't his job.. He tried to love a broken little girl and when he did we were a phenomenal couple. As I've claimed my sobriety I've realized that I dont think I ever truly loved him the way I thought I did. And it breaks my heart more than he ever broke mine. It wasn't a waste of time. This guy gave me the best thing to ever happen to me.. But realizing that i could've spared us years of turmoil has me all the way in my feelings...After he and I ended things for good.. I met this wonderful man. He loved me and my child. He wanted to see us grow together. He always took me out. We were always having a good time.. By a good time I mean getting beyond fucked up every time we didnt have my son. Then it started becoming more frequent. Fast forward a year into our relationship and I'm in cosmetology school and he has a great job.. Fast forward again to another year and I'm just about to finish school.. I end up pregnant and I miscarry. I took a 6 week LOA from school to cope. Which was just me drinking more And I even started cutting myself again after 5 years of not doing it.. And thats when things started spiraling for us as a couple. He wouldn't come home most nights. I would stay up til 5/6 o'clock in the morning waiting for him. I wasn't perfect.. I yelled and cussed him out 99% of the rest of the time because of this. I end up finding out he was doing meth. And as much as I wanted to fix him all hell basically broke lose. My miscarriage was in May 2015 and when things ended it was the following February (2016). In that short time he became increasingly violent. Never hurting my child. Never letting him see the path that was unfolding. He had busted my lip one time and bruises all over myself the second time around. The night we broke up I had found all of his emails to women on a Meet and Fuck site. That was it. I was done. I didnt have a phone so I was using his to screenshot the emails to my mom and best friend. He got up and grabbed me by my hair as I was sitting on the floor.. I run to the bathroom/closet and the next thing I know he was coming at me so I went to push him and in return he slammed my face into a metal rack. Don't have recollection of about 30-45 seconds. I come to and feel my face hurting. I get what I can and leave. As I'm grabbing stuff I hear him say " I didn't mean to hurt you but you brought this on yourself. " Following morning I'm in so much pain I don't have a choice but to go to the ER. Get there and the cops are called by my mother. And when they start taking pictures I ended up with way more bruising than I imagined. my CT scans and MRI of my face came back good but my chest x-ray showed bruising and my chest wall was swollen. Stayed two days in the hospital. Come to find out that he had been doing meth our entire relationship. I pressed charges moved my son and I back home lost EVERYTHING and found a good job. But as the year went on I began to lose complete control. ..In October i had a breakdown and was diagnosed with PTSD and major depression.. Even though I was taking care of my bills and supporting my son I was always working and always getting fucked up trying to numb all my pain. I didn't DRINK to have a good time. I drank to forget every part of my past. The day before Christmas guess who was in jail for public intoxication? This girl.. Anyways.. Didn't ever hear from the cops regarding my ex until this February.. A whole year after filing charges. It sent me into an array of self destructing actions. Lost a good job.. I don't even remember being at work the day I got fired. And that's when I finally decided I couldn't live the way I was living anymore. ..Last week I receive a subpoena to show up in court to testify. That's when I wanted to drink about it. I didn't but I wanted to so bad. So i show up to court and my ex didn't show. Which means he forfeited his bail. And is now wanted by the county. ..The feelings are so fucking overwhelming its almost consuming me. Its fucking hard and I'm scared. I know I'm not going to pick up a bottle or anything but I'm struggling with how to handle feelings I'm not used to. ,12,6ufuk0,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6ufuk0/140_days_sober_and_the_feelings_of_past_actions/,21,2017-08-18T01:32:51
[deleted],Struggling to find my place in AA. Can anyone offer advice?,[deleted],3,6tgui5,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6tgui5/struggling_to_find_my_place_in_aa_can_anyone/,5,2017-08-13T14:37:29
bigblack_attack,Anyone here use medical marijuana?,Ok. I know it a crazy question but I have been struggling with severe anger issues. Background: I almost have 4 years I see a psychiatrist am on mood stabilizers take lithium orotate calm powder and drink kava tea which are all supposed to help. I also pray and meditate everyday. I just seems to have so much rage sometime. I also know they have manipulated certain strains that don't get you high but do have calming effects treat epilepsy etc. I'm not itching to get high or even leaning towards the idea but I just wanted some other opinions before I bring it to my sponsor. Thanks guys. ,2,6t9df7,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6t9df7/anyone_here_use_medical_marijuana/,25,2017-08-12T12:28:25
the_weremoose,Help responding to someone struggling with alcoholissm,I hope this is the right place to ask this. My vices and we all have them lie in different areas so I don't have much experience with the AA culture...I have a former coworker who has an alcohol problem. According to him he drinks about a fifth of run every night. He has alienated the rest of his coworkers his family and all of his irl friends except for me. (He has some online friends from gaming though)..He has been getting surlier and surlier towards me and my family since I went to another job and it has culminated with his texting me an expletive filled attack last night. I won't get into the drama behind it unless asked...As selfish as this is I don't want ths behavior in my life. I have a wife and a small child and don't want this behavior in their lives...When he eventually apologizes I am considering telling him that I forgive him but that actions have consequences. In this case the consequence is that I don't want him contacting me again until he's in AA...Is this a good response? I am actually a little worried he might be considering suicide and worried that I could push him that direction instead of towards recovery.,4,6s8063,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6s8063/help_responding_to_someone_struggling_with/,7,2017-08-07T15:38:57
walkintheline45,I think it's time for me.,Drinking is something I've been struggling with for about two years. I don't want to be this person. ,6,6s7j6y,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6s7j6y/i_think_its_time_for_me/,8,2017-08-07T14:30:18
blueevolution,Daily prescribed Xanax and heavy alcohol two nights a week for 10 years. I have been working hard to stop all of this and struggling. Would AA or NA help me?,I am not sure if they are right for me or not because I have got my Xanax use down to about a half a mg every other day and I was never a daily drinker but I drank very heavy at least one or two nights a week every week for about 10 years.  Now that I have stopped both things I find that I am crying all the time questioning the reason for my existence having a hard time socializing because all of my friends are heavy drinkers.  However I can have alcohol in my house and not drink it and I have pretty much gotten my Xanax use under control but not completely stopped.  I just feel very miserable and very lost.  I have this horrible feeling that everything I do in life is just busy work.  I have almost adult kids and I am a single parent  I feel like I just keep holding onto life for them to not put them through any suffering.  So I keep having thoughts that I may as well start drinking again and taking more Xanax again because it feels like the only way I can get through.  If anyone has any kind of advice related to AA or NA or just general advice I would really appreciate it.,3,6qy7ut,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6qy7ut/daily_prescribed_xanax_and_heavy_alcohol_two/,12,2017-08-01T14:28:28
shrimpgritseggs,An essay about my struggle with Step Two,Becoming a teetotaler is tremendously confusing work. First one is told to distract oneself and go for a walk with their dog do a crossword puzzle or call a friend. I have found this method of distraction to be the easiest way to maintain sobriety. Then the same soul is instructed to read pray meditate and attend meetings that focus exclusively on the object of their desire. ..When considering the second step I cannot pretend to consider God without considering the woman in the hijab that held her dying baby in a drought. This is a photo taken by the photographer Dominic Nahr for National Geographic and destroys every theodicy that I had ever constructed regarding a God that could be good just and benevolent. How can I expect the divine Vivisector to bless my journey in sobriety if he cannot even supply His children in Somalia with a season of sufficient precipitation for crops to grow? How can I thank God for keeping me from a booze cruise after happy hour when His most humble and faithful are suffering needlessly in the desert? ..There is seldom a moment that passes that I do not wish to believe in a Higher Power that contains some image of love and protection. But in this arena of danger famine war smoke and pestilence how can such a being exist? The atheist is really the generous soul that declines to believe in the Westboro God and chooses instead the path of a spiritual stray. Otherwise he is inclined to yield to the power of One that hatefully sends calamity death disease and depression on His children. The justification given by most nearby Christians is this  there is sin in the world and that is why these terrible events occur and persist.  ..Oh... So because the vapor of sin fumigates onto all humans at the first moment of exo-uterine life each is subject to experience the more terrorizing events and struggles that humanity has to offer. It seems not only unfair but intimately cruel and useless as a feature of reality. It seems that Jesus only accomplished an exorbitant amount of blood loss on the cross - rather than victory of this sweaty cloud of sin. ..(I will stop flipping the pancake of theology before it burns - or before I burn myself. I am splitting a head full of hairs here.)..The point is Step Two requires a most considerable sacrifice for me. It seems to require me to believe in a Holy Arbiter who would on one hand deny a season of rain to a community in northeastern Somolia but on the other hand could assist in expunging a DUI for an ungrateful redneck who doesn't pay child support. ..A power greater than myself? .	Absolutely. Let me list a few. .1. My boss .2. My bills.3. Bacteria..But none of these powerful things promise a restoration of my sanity.  That one is God may you find Him now!  reads the big book triumphantly. I usually see feet shuffle and dust kick off of the ceiling fans during this passage but rarely a beam of light in the center of the room of God announcing Himself. I guess I will stay patient for that moment..,2,6pf4dg,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6pf4dg/an_essay_about_my_struggle_with_step_two/,12,2017-07-25T05:49:08
throwitawaynow99989,Your personal conception of God,If people don't mind would you talk to me about your conception if god. I would probably call myself agnostic and despite the fact that the big book describes AA as a spiritual program I still get hung up on the use of the word God. And the chapter to agnostics I almost felt it was condescending (although maybe I'm being overly sensitive). ..I'm just struggling to find a conception of God that I can actually buy into...If anyone has any thoughts or advice on the topic I would love and appreciate hearing about them...Thanks!,6,6p9wfo,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6p9wfo/your_personal_conception_of_god/,25,2017-07-24T13:27:34
OfficerPumpkinPie,Has anyone else struggled with drinking for a very short amount of time such as few months? Is that alcholism?,TLDR: Has anyone else struggled with drinking for a very short amount of time such as few months? Is that alcholism? ...I feel weird and uncomfortable calling myself an Alcholic because I feel like I am minimizing other people's addiction. I hadn't drank for that long I used to drink socially every weekend when i was 18 and then after that I drank few times a year at most. .Then in early Spring my old friend killed themselves which ofcourse was devestating. Naturally I drank after the wake. Then I drank after the funeral. Then I drank everyday for a month. It took me another 2 months to quit as I would start shaking or having panic attacks when I didn't drink and would crack on the 2nd day of trying not to drink. ..It has been 2 months since I drank I dont feel comfortable going to bars with friends because I am afraid I wont be able to control myself since I still get an occasional overwhelming urge. I dont know much about alcoholism.... ..The other day my partner told me he isnt comfortable with me ever drinking again he is completely straight edge himself and i got really defensive. The idea of someone telling me to never drink again got me itching that i almost went and bought liquor but the store thank god was closed. :( ..,3,6p316p,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6p316p/has_anyone_else_struggled_with_drinking_for_a/,8,2017-07-23T14:45:55
oallilviiseorni,Need help with relapsing roommate,So I need help. My roommate admitted to me that he's been drinking again. I've never dealt with his before and I'm completely lost. .Background he and I are not friends our families are semi close (it's why we are roomies) however he and I never were friends. We have been living together for roughly a month with everything going well. I knew beforehand that he was in recovery and was doing well with it. He is currently unemployed and I've been trying to help him find a job that he will thrive in. .I had a funny gut feeling the other day that he was drinking again and when he left the apartment I went into his room (you can yell at me later) and snooped around that's when I found all the empties. I calmly left his room and got ready for work. I was fully prepared to come home and talk with him. Talk no accuse just yak and show support. However when I got home he called me to his room and confesses what had been happening. .I was shocked!  We talked for a while about the struggle and I offered support and help. Offered to take him to AA meetings he seemed uninterested in that. .I did explain that I would not tolerate alcohol being drunk in the house (I'm not a recovering alcoholic FYI) and that if I found him drinking in the house I would bring this issue to his parents attention. .I'm totally out of my scope here and was looking for advice on this. Kicking him out I fear would do more harm than good. I'm just not sure if there are additional things I should be aware of or lookout for as I continue to live with him. .I figured it was a good sign that he admitted to me that he had relapsed? .Am I way off base with this? ..Thanks!! ,1,6okpcf,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6okpcf/need_help_with_relapsing_roommate/,2,2017-07-20T21:09:25
wildspirit34,The 5 Stages of a Parent Trying to Cope with the fact that their Daughter has an Addiction/Alcohol Problem,Lately my mother has been going through the stages ever since I came out as an alcoholic. I admitted to a past drug addiction my problems with alcohol and much more. I needed to after 6 months of being sober and currently struggling. So here are my identifying stages. Feel free to add more if you have encountered certain reactions from loved ones. ..1. Stay One: Denial.."You don't have an addiction... I grew up around addicts. You aren't an addict"."I didn't think you drank too much. There's no way you have a problem. You just enjoy your drinks"..2. Stage Two: Confusion.." what no... those things didn't happen?" " I never knew that experience hurt you" "what are you talking about? I was there!" " how did I not see this??" "Why wasn't I paying attention?"..3. Stage Three: Anger/guilt ." is it because of me?" " I don't know why you are blaming this on me." " I don't have to change my life or support you through this. I'm fine.. your the one with the problem" "what? I'm not ignoring you. You just have to deal with it. Not me" " Your Father did this!! It's all his fault!! That son of a bitch" ..4. Stage Four: Misunderstandings.." well one day you can start drinking again" " I heard addiction is not a real problem... it's just a whole bunch of underlying problems that have to be corrected and your addiction will go away" " as long as this doesn't get in the way of your job. Everything will be fine"..5. Stage Five: Curiosity. ." So how long has this been going on?" "how much did you drink?" "how did you know you had a problem?" "what other events happen in your life that I don't know about?" "what did you talk about at AA today?" " Any juicy stories from the people in AA?" "Do I know anyone there?" ,3,6noje0,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6noje0/the_5_stages_of_a_parent_trying_to_cope_with_the/,5,2017-07-16T16:44:13
pjbth,Another Dead Friend.,Just got the call a friend I had been in rehab with last year took his own life. ..The guy had just got visitation back with his son after like 2 years apart. He was starting to get things back but just couldn't keep going and couldn't beat his demons or his depression. ..He was a tough guy really struggled and fought back and he loved his kid but in the end lost his battle. So if you need another reason to not drink tonight think about not only where you might wake up but that you might not wake up at all. ..Love you YL may you rest in peace.,5,6ndqtq,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6ndqtq/another_dead_friend/,4,2017-07-14T23:12:27
loveadumb,Lost... Again,I've been reading a lot of posts here to get myself back to where I need to be. I know I should be back in meetings. I've been going back down the dark path that I was in for five years. I recently got out of rehab and went 153 days clean and sober before I started fucking up again. I am also bipolar so I deal with that. I've been in too many mental hospitals and I know right now what I am doing is just putting me back into my lost lonely place again. I know what I need to do. I just wanted to put this out there so if there is anyone that is struggling like me... They can read this and know that we're both in it together. Hell all of us are in it together. Thanks for letting me share.,1,6n0xp1,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6n0xp1/lost_again/,2,2017-07-13T07:08:53
Carmac,Actor Nelsan Ellis died suddenly this week at the age of 39. He struggled with drug and alcohol abuse for many years. The exact circumstances of Ellis' death were shared by his manager who confirmed that his death was a result of heart failure following an attempt to quit drinking on his own.,[none],12,6mtkt4,https://www.aol.com/article/entertainment/2017/07/12/actors-death-spotlights-risk-in-detoxing-alone/23026154/,8,2017-07-12T08:24:04
fondle_austin,Update. My first meeating,I was so nervous to go. But I made it. Everyone was so friendly and welcoming. I didn't share for my first meeting but listened to everyone story. I realized maybe I'm not alone and I'm not the only one.  Everyone has their struggle. I plan on going back tomorrow to keep the consistency.  Thank you everyone's encouraging words!    let the journey being. ,21,6lyl1x,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6lyl1x/update_my_first_meeating/,13,2017-07-07T22:53:27
warpt04,Forgiveness?,Long story short. I (30m) have been in a relationship with my now wife (30f) for 6 years married for 4. We have 2 children. I have 3 easy rules in our relationship; no cheating no drugs and no men in our home that I have not met while I'm gone. Without getting into too many details she has broken 2 of those rules. She has done drugs while I was away and behind my back while I was with there. She has also invited dudes into our house (her friends "friends") while I was gone. Although she hasn't "cheated" on me in the traditional sense. The last time I was gone she invited her friend (f) to come over who brought her friend (m) who I have never met to our house. She continued to drink and do drugs until she was blacked out. I just found out that she got naked around 6 in the morning because she finally asked her friend (f). Her friend (f) said nothing happened but she also said she went to bed early. She would only get naked for one reason she is not the type of person to randomly get naked because she didn't want to wear clothes. She doesn't remember what happened that night and her "friends" aren't going to tell me. Should I chalk this up to strike 3? Or should I believe what her friend told her? Is getting naked while married  in front of another dude considered cheating? I know what her intentions were. I'm struggling to understand everything. My wife has entered a program because she and I know she has a substance abuse problem. She currently has 50 days sober and is working on herself. I don't know if I can forgive what has been done.,1,6kkwj0,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6kkwj0/forgiveness/,6,2017-06-30T23:49:32
Friendly_B,Fourth Step with Sponsee,I'm sponsoring a young man who I'd struggling with his step work. He says his willingness comes and goes and I figure that is pretty honest of him. His resentment inventory is pretty thin there's not much there and once I suggested he add himself to the list if he's exhausted his past it turned into an exercise in self-loathing...He's pretty young. 27. Is it possible that he just doesn't have many resentments? This doesn't seem possible to me mine went on and on for a life time my resentments burn in me. This guy is so inwardly harsh to himself though that I don't understand how to help him be rigidly honest.,9,6j73mn,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6j73mn/fourth_step_with_sponsee/,34,2017-06-24T04:20:47
[deleted],Discord server for alcohol abuse,I have created a discord server for those who are struggling with alcohol abuse. You can share stories and make friends at https://discord.gg/ZTnS6qX..Edit: Had to create a new server; post now contains current link,1,6ijw7b,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6ijw7b/discord_server_for_alcohol_abuse/,4,2017-06-21T01:48:57
Jon_Coffie,Drinking daily for the past few months I need help!,I've been drinking daily for the past few months now. My line of work forces me to deal with the worst aspects of human behaviour people can be really shitty to each other and I'm at the coal face daily. ..I started using alcohol as stress relief but I cannot just have a drink or two and leave it. I have to drink at least half to 3/4 of a bottle of whiskey and now it's becoming a bottle a day. ..I find myself hiding alcohol from my wife drinking it out of coffee cups also non transparent water bottles.  I'm slurring my speech forgetting things missing important dates. ..I'm so scared.  I went to an AA meeting and I literally freaked out. I convinced myself I didn't really have a problem to the degree others were struggling and I was simply being a perfectionist so to speak but I realise now I've got a massive problem...I need your help reddit.  Those of you who have been here before what do I do? .,4,6hwt20,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6hwt20/drinking_daily_for_the_past_few_months_i_need_help/,10,2017-06-17T20:20:58
terrorbitch,Here's me talking funnily about my struggles with addiction and how Alcoholics Anonymous has helped so much! It's still hard tho-- specifically how boring being sober can feel! Hope it can cheer some other addicts up and make them feel less alone   ,[none],7,6hw2zt,https://youtu.be/ibebHPu5VMY,2,2017-06-17T17:58:36
Thisharryballz,I found my way back,Long story I wont do a drunk log or war stories..I drank from 15 to 30 never realizing there was a solution..I did geographics I made promises I tried everything and still could not stop. In those 15 yearsI had three bottoms at the time they  horrified me yet I still did not stop. At 31 I was introduced to AA and I immediately embraced the steps..My obsession was lifted within a couple of weeks of doing the first 3 steps. I did everything that was suggested got a sponsor worked the steps and stayed sober for about 14 years. Everything that was promised in the big book came true. My life was great God restored everything and then some..At about 12 years I stopped going to meetings being of service and guess what happened next..I went out..It lasted 12 years and in that time it was self will run riot and all character defects that had been managed through the steps came right back..I had something happen to me that I can only attribute to God.and found myself sitting in the parking lot of the fellowship. I did not make a conscious decision to come back..I knew that my life would be over soon at my hand most likely.so I walked in to the rooms once more..I got a sponsor the second day and we went through the first 164 pages in about 10 days..The obsession was lifted again..I am now 83 days sober and even though my life is a mess divorce after 36 years sale of a house and unemployment I have hope for the future..IT WORKS IF YOU WORK IT.I am now looking to sponsor some men in the rooms to fulfill the .the purpose. .If you are struggling with alcohol get a big book and read the DRs opinion and the chapter to the Agnostic. If you see your self.you are in the right place and you don't ever have to go back to the life of despair and self loathing..Get a sponsor and work the steps half measures availed us nothing Be fearless and thorough and practice rigorous honesty..Keep coming back it works..,14,6hk317,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6hk317/i_found_my_way_back/,4,2017-06-15T23:32:40
Flipwidget2,Drinking dream,I have 100+ days sober and last night I had my first drinking dream (that I remember).   I hid the fact that I was drinking from my friends in my dream.  Ugh the struggle continues-  here's to sober living!,2,6gegh9,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6gegh9/drinking_dream/,4,2017-06-10T05:47:06
hankthesmallcat,Vacation Meetings,I think I just want to share my love of the AA fellowship. I'm on vacation and feeling uneasy about it being my first sober vacation to a very drink-friendly destination. After a pity party night I found a meeting this morning. I raised my hand and shared how I was feeling and these people total strangers helped me more than you can imagine. I left giving and receiving genuine hugs and I will see them tomorrow. It's amazing to go somewhere so far from home and be embraced so lovingly. And to hear the same message and such similar stories. We are all so similar. My prayers are with all of you especially those who are struggling right now. I don't know you personally but I love you all. ,17,6gaqsx,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6gaqsx/vacation_meetings/,8,2017-06-09T15:41:53
mmiikkiitt,Idea: Would anyone be down for a daily meeting-esque post?,Hey everyone..I was thinking today about how I've been struggling somewhat with making it to meetings some days because of a new schedule I'm adjusting to. It occurred to me that it could be nice if we were able to collectively start a daily post with something akin to a meeting topic (a Big Book/Literature excerpt someone sharing their story or a topic for discussion) that people could respond to throughout the day. ..Of course this wouldn't be a replacement for meetings IRL just a nice way to share our experience strength and hope with each other on different sobriety topics...I know that I would personally love to participate in something like this (and I'm down to commit time and brainpower if people feel it is worth pursuing) but would anybody else? ..If so do you have any thoughts/suggestions/ideas for how we could make this happen? :) .,11,6fpkr3,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6fpkr3/idea_would_anyone_be_down_for_a_daily/,18,2017-06-06T19:17:33
Mymymy89,Want to skype talk with a former alcoholic?,We can exchange experiences perspectives circumstances etc...I can tell you my story how I did it and you can tell me your situation and what's going on...I would love to be a source of motivation and inspiration to anyone who is really struggling as I struggled the same just until two years ago... For some odd reason I love connecting with people who struggle with alcoholism and depression I guess because that's what I've known for most of my life. But it doesn't have to be like that always - I am living proof. Heavy drinking from age 18 to 25 set me back tremendously but I'm slowly starting to get my shit together and everyday is another step towards self-actualisation. I'm 27 now and life has never been better for me honestly and quitting was a huge part of this transformation but not the decisive part! It's all about the mentality and attitude you have. Whether you are a full-blown alcoholic recovering alcoholic or also one of those who beat the condition I would like to hear your story and build with you. I'm not afraid to expose my weaknesses and I hope so you aren't too - after all we don't know each other so talking with a random person should come easier in a sense.....PM me if interested,0,6eudpz,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6eudpz/want_to_skype_talk_with_a_former_alcoholic/,2,2017-06-02T09:30:28
OregonTrailesque,Just looking for someone to talk to.,Hey there.  Been struggling with some bad drinking habits and I was looking for someone to speak to about it.,1,6e0a6n,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6e0a6n/just_looking_for_someone_to_talk_to/,14,2017-05-29T09:31:07
[deleted],I'm struggling right now,[deleted],5,6dw2yv,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6dw2yv/im_struggling_right_now/,6,2017-05-28T16:50:01
Natwoman,Question from the outside?,I don't have a problem with alcohol- I really don't. ..I do have manic depression and as such should not and will not be drinking again. I've had terrible manic depressive and mixed episodes on alcohol (like one beer and I spiral) and potentially lost the love of my life as a result. I'm working on that but mostly working on myself. That means therapy meds a healthy lifestyle and no more alcohol. Not special occasions not sometimes never again. I again don't really care except that all of my current friends drink and I fear that I would accept "one is ok."..So I respectfully ask- If someone who should not be drinking for medical reasons but does not struggle with addiction attends the meetings- is that disrespectful?..I feel like it's important to surround myself with a community dedicated to not drinking for my own separate recovery but I would never want to dissuade someone else's for my own benefit (like insult or injure someone in AA)...Please lend me your opinions. ..UPDATE: I went to a meeting the next morning. I'm glad I did. Thank you everyone!,3,6d7t21,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6d7t21/question_from_the_outside/,7,2017-05-25T01:59:20
pineapplekid,Struggling,Today is day 75 for me. I've been having a hard time lately and I picked up a bottle of whiskey. I haven't started drinking yet but I feel like it's only a matter of time before the obsession leads to the first drink,5,6cxzy6,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6cxzy6/struggling/,21,2017-05-23T18:19:10
n_mcnasty,83 Days of Sobriety,Clear head new vision rediscovered purpose reconstructed self image. .The scariest part of my mid twenties was believing I was becoming someone I did not like. Looking in the mirror on a Sunday and believing that this is who I was becoming. That my thoughts were real and genuine. Enter Anxiety Attacks. Enter manic depression. Enter self hatred and self loathing. Ok that's fine. This is who I am and I can live with it. I can find ways to numb this feeling and keep the ball rolling. Shit I can even have some fun along the way. I can get up and even workout to feel a little better. I can eat healthy 4 days a week to convince myself I am treating my body well. I can listen to self help books and podcasts and pick out parts that I want to hear and ignore the others. I can go on trips and overdo things but come "back to reality" when I get back. What if I don't want to face that reality? What if those plane rides hungover those car rides where I cant bear to look at myself when i look in the rear view mirror where I have to watch a movie or listen to something unrelated to my life to ignore the real thoughts and feeling I am having? Knowing that deep down I am destroying my body but more importantly ruining relationships and my own reputation. .At 27 1/2 years old I finally checked my ego and decided I should talk to someone about it. But not someone who I drink with and who might be going through the same stuff on their own schedule. Not a conversation that leads to both of us feeling ok about what we are doing because we are both doing it. After all misery loves company. I needed to talk to someone who admitted they lost control. All it took for me was an email. An email that took 3 minutes to write but about 20 minutes to click "send". I sat there and stared at what I wrote. It was simple and true. But as soon as I sent it I was admitting defeat. I was admitting I lost control. Some substance was controlling me and changing me. What a blow to my ego. Fuck it I was so close to doing something drastic to myself that I was desperate. "Send" .This is the email I wrote:.Hey        .I am really not sure where you are with this but as I understand it you quit drinking a while back. I am considering doing the same. The blackouts and embarrassment are piling up for me and I really want to make some sort of a change. Do you have some time this week or next to sit down for a cup of coffee or lunch to share your story and let me ask you some questions about this? Again I am not sure where you are with this and if it is the wrong time please just let me know. .Thanks.Nick .(phone #).Within 5 minutes I got a call. He let me know he was sober and wanted to know if I would like to meet for coffee that evening just to talk. I agreed verbally. Everyday I am grateful for this person and the phone call they made to me..It was hard to make it to that meeting. I was telling myself dozens of reasons not to go and to text him and take the easy way out. But I agreed verbally so I went. It was a casual cup of coffee at Starbucks. He was there to listen and he made me feel comfortable by sharing with me some of his struggles and some stories of his past. To be honest I had no idea if anyone else had the same thoughts I did. The anxiety attacks the loss of control the self hatred. I thought I was going crazy until I heard him talk about it. He also let me know there is a way out. He shared with me how he helps manage his life and for him that was AA. Its a safe place where you can just go to listen where you can share your thoughts/stories/feelings and receive absolutely zero judgement. AA is a lot of things to a lot of people but for me having a safe place with ZERO judgement is the best part of it. I don't go to meetings religiously but I agree with their foundation. And the only requirement to be a member is the desire to stop drinking. There is no membership fee or any other requirement. AA does not affiliate with any political/religious group. Its open safe and non judgmental..The first few weeks were awful. The desire to drink was outrageous. But even more so admitting that I had an uncontrollable desire to drink was the ultimate blow to my pride/ego. Listening to others and what they are going through helps. Getting a sponsor whom you can call at any time is crucial. Someone who understands what you are going through and WANTS to help you because it also helps them stay on track. I ate a lot and I drank a lot of coffee. I couldn't sleep but eventually I slept. I was cranky but I found other ways to release energy. More trips to the gym. Starting the podcast I had always talked about. Little by little I built off of my progress. Pretty soon I felt momentum. I regained confidence to go to social events and be sober. I was able to little by little tell people I quit drinking (even if I just told them I was taking a break for a little while). I was so incredibly scared to tell this to my friends. I have a reputation to uphold! I am the life of the party! I pour the shot and get the ball rolling before going out! What role was I gonna play now??? But once I saw the support of some friends I gained confidence and felt momentum. The majority of my friends were excited for me. Some of them made fun of me and made me feel guilty. Turns out these were not my real friends (shocker!). I was scared to lose these friends. Scared to admit they were drinking buddies not friends. But I got over it. I reconnected with people from my past who have faded away. People I was ashamed to reach out to because I was embarrassed at who I was becoming. I realized I hated myself. But the new me reached out and the response was incredible. Gaining this confidence helps me choose who I want to spend time with and who will help me become the person I am capable of becoming. .Now I am 83 days sober. I drink non alcoholic beer or a soda water with lime in some settings when I really feel the need to have a drink or just don't feel like explaining myself. It works great! I lost 15 lbs of fat and I have a body closer to the standard I set for myself and most importantly I believe that I can shape my body into whatever I want. I am in control of it. I wake up on Saturday and Sunday mornings without fear of what I did or who I pissed off the night before. Before I would go the entire day without checking my phone because I was so scared to see what drunk nick said or did. I am now in control. I can control my end of the relationships I have with others. I can control what I put into my body and mind. If I am in a situation my gut tells me not to be in I can leave. I can drive at any time of the day/night without worrying about getting pulled over. I BELIEVE I CAN ACCOMPLISH ANYTHING. I am in control of my life from this point forward all because I admitted to myself (through someone else) that something else was controlling me. .Momentum is an amazing thing. It can really become and unstoppable force. To get a snow ball rolling down a hill first you have to pack snow into a ball and it takes energy and effort. Once you get it rolling it builds off itself and the hill does all the work. Pack the snowball NOW and see what happens. ,12,6bk4sb,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6bk4sb/83_days_of_sobriety/,4,2017-05-16T16:46:21
ltmurra12,I went to my 1st AA meeting and I felt as if I was labeled a poser alcoholic.,.I went to my first meeting tonight. I identified myself as a first timer so the meeting turned into a newcomers meeting. I of course felt very uncomfortable and terrified being put so on the spot my first meeting. I introduced myself and told the group that I have been sober for almost 5 months prior to coming to the meeting. I told them I really just want to listen and try to see what the program is all about before really jumping into telling my story. ..The meeting continued with many members telling their stories. Many of them made me feel as though my personal struggle pales in comparison to theirs. This was all fine and well. I anticipated this before coming as I am 25 and have identified the problem earlier than many. ..My issue with the meeting came after when I was asked if I had sought treatment to get sober by one member of the group. I told him that I did it on my own with the help of family and friends. I received a skeptical look from this member. I brushed this off. ..I began talking to another member who told me "IF you really are an alcoholic then I hope you come back". ..This may be totally in my head but I felt as if this was a loaded statement. Why would I be there if I didn't think I was an alcoholic? Isn't this a dangerous thing to say to newly sober individual?..I have a sober friend who has been through the program. He told me that it is possible some members may feel as if my specific situation is suspect in that I largely got sober without a program to fall back on. ..I guess what I'm getting at is---is it abnormal that I was able to quit on my own? Does this truly bother some members of AA that my struggle may not have been as strenuous as theirs? Or is this just a normal paranoid feeling that many new member deal with?..Any response is much appreciated. ..,8,6betxt,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6betxt/i_went_to_my_1st_aa_meeting_and_i_felt_as_if_i/,22,2017-05-15T22:27:36
pineapplekid,Sponsor- sponsee relationship,I've been working with my sponsor for about 4 months (first ever sponsor) now and I'm getting scared.  I've grown close to her (especially after taking the 5th step with her). Now that I've really started to open up to her feel like I'm being too needy and that I'm intruding in her life. I text her throughout the day and I find myself wanting to talk to her about all the stuff that goes on in my head. Is this something I should be talking to her about?  Maybe I need to talk to her about boundaries and how she feels things are going? ..I've been known to rely on people open up to them and then vanish completely because I'm scared that they're now in a position where they can hurt me.  I don't want that to happen with my sponsor.  I'll just find another sponsor and repeat the cycle. I want to be able to work through the fears I have when I start to care about someone and they become important to me but it feels weird doing that with her if she's directly involved. ..I think it's ok that I trust her and that she's become an important part of my life and recovery.  I'm grateful for her and all she's done for me...I'm struggling with figuring out whether or not my feelings are justified (that it's ok to care for another person and it's ok to be scared when developing new relationships) or whether I'm being too needy and am crossing boundaries without knowing it...Feels a lot like we're dating without sex. Am I nuts? Am I the only one who feels that way? ..I don't know if that made any sense but that's what I have for now. Thanks for listening ..,1,6aa53x,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/6aa53x/sponsor_sponsee_relationship/,8,2017-05-09T22:38:29
Powerless_throwaway,Thoughts on 'A freethinker in Alcoholics Anonymous' by John Lauritsen,I won't go into much detail about my history with the AA fellowship but simply leave it at the fact that I've been very resistant to working the steps because I have never been able to reconcile the idea of asking a higher power for help as useful in any meaningful way. I would say  that I am in fact agnostic not atheist but find nothing compelling in my experiences in treatment centers working with sponsors or reading the Big Book to sway my beliefs to the sort of gnostic/spiritual ideas pushed in the literature. ..I can't blame the steps for my failure to put together no more than a few months over my 10 years in and out of AA as I've only been seriously committed to wanting sobriety at select times. However when I have tried to apply myself to the program I've been pushed away by what I find to be cultish and irrational belief in vague steps that have little or nothing to do with the actual problem. ..That being said after committing my self to a treatment center in January and moving to a sober recovery house after giving my honest best shot at the steps again I felt lost and hopeless until I discovered this book: A freethinkers guide to Alcoholics Anonymous. .It's as if John L has been able to put into words my exact issues with AA in a way that also offers suggestions that I was not able to find on my own. I have a new appreciation for and understanding of the history of the program and a hope that I can make it work for me somehow. ..The meetings in my area are very overrun by religiosity and the director of my sober house is a spiritual bully so to speak and it's been very difficult for me to maintain a positive attitude over the last few months. However now that I am armed with knowledge of both the True and False AA I am confident that I can continue to grow in the program. The true AA is that of the fellowship of sharing your experience with another drunk of the 24 hour plan of the anarchist traditions of AA the false is the dogmatic subservience to a higher power and 12 (SUGGESTED!) steps vague spiritual principles and the escalation of Bill W to the status of a mysterious prophet...I feel that there is a lot of space for the book to expand on what exactly the True AA entails but also understand that recovery is different for everyone and that part of the dogmatic restrictions of AA can be attributed to limiting topics discussed at meetings. ..I would recommend this book for anyone struggling with the religiosity of the program. ..,7,69d802,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/69d802/thoughts_on_a_freethinker_in_alcoholics_anonymous/,35,2017-05-05T03:11:04
thatguywiththehats,Cory Alcoholic 30 days... Non-believer,15 years ago I worked at a residential treatment facility so I dragged a lot of surly teenage boys to these meetings. I knew the steps the traditions the literature the pamphlets the Rocky Horror audience participation ("Sponsor? What's that!?!" "You're in the right place" "...could and would if he were sought.")  Even then I drank too much but it was my familiarity with the program that kept me away. It was obvious the members doing the talking didn't think a person could succeed without a higher power that was supernatural. There's a lot of religious people and a lot of "Not really religious but more ya know like spiritual?" people. It could be whatever you believe in as long as it's some sort of intelligent force! If you can't hack that let the group be a stand-in for your higher power because if you work the steps you'll believe in a supernatural God soon enough or you've done something wrong and you will probably fail. (That's all right there in the Big Book. Yeah I've read that. Also that horseshit We Agnostics section.) I squandered my 20's drinking and never thought to use AA as a tool because it is clearly not meant for me...It's still not...Now that I'm giving AA a shot I am finding strength in the fellowship. These people are my people and I'm one of them. I know I'm in the right place.  When people talk they tell my stories. They describe feelings and thoughts I have. The people and the literature have this dark snarky sarcastic sense of humor forged in pain but lit by hope. Some of them even seem to understand my disbelief and give me helpful encouragement like "Hey take what you can use and leave the rest" but others dismiss it with "Yeah it's okay you don't believe now. Because you're gonna."..I'm in the right place. I struggle to reconcile living a life of "rigorous honesty" while paying lip service to a God I don't believe in in 6 and a half of the 12 steps. "Fake it till you make it" is a clever rhyme but step work isn't about imagining a god and talking to it like some sort of celestial therapist. We are supposed to beseech this God to act on our behalf. It's not "imagine a person and try talking to it" but "imagine a chair and try sitting in it."..I understand that Tradition #3 could not be more clear about what it takes to be a member but while being welcoming to atheists and agnostics a lot of the literature and a lot of the people are patronizing and dismissive of us. Every "atheist" and "agnostic" referenced in the literature somehow seems to end up finding God lo and behold...I've heard many times "Oh it's not what you think. It doesn't have to be an anthropomorphic God like the bible with a robe and a beard." As if my disbelief in god is due to beards...Then there's the word games where god can be whatever I want it to be like love or nature which is fine but once we've decided I believe in those things we say "Okay so that's god! Now that we've figured out you believe in God now believe it can restore you to sanity!" I can't ask nature or love for stuff. And frankly turning my life over to nature is what got me into this mess...One guy suggested I write down all the qualities I'd want in a higher power... then believe in THAT!  That's like saying "Alright so she's got Tina Turner's legs Michelle Obama's arms Susan Sarandon's brain Christina Hendricks face hair and boobs AAAAAANNNND that's my WIFE NOW!"..Equally absurd to the "make up a god and believe in it" is "It could be a doorknob or a fire extinguisher as long as you believe in it's power to remove your shortcomings and restore you to sanity."..If I don't think an omnipotent deity is going to restore my sanity why would I think a light bulb will FFS? Are y'all muthaf*ckas even listening to yourselves?  Anybody who says crap like that clearly takes their faith for granted and must find it baffling how someone could deny something so obvious as the existence of a loving God. These are same oblivious people who ask if I worship myself why I'm unwilling to give up my power or why I'm mad at God. ("Oh I'm fine with god but one of his followers is kind of pissing me off right now.")..I'm glad there are a few atheist and agnostic meetings in my area so I can vent about this stuff and hopefully find a sponsor who can help me with this stuff but man some of those other meetings make me feel out of place. Much like taking my first drink of the night is like rolling the dice on what will happen going to a random meeting is like rolling the dice of how much "God stuff" I'll have to hear about that hour.  I've learned to keep quiet because nothing gets people talking to you about god like mentioning you don't believe in one...See I'm already getting good at faking it. G.O.D. my loving Group of Drunks...In the literature it graciously concedes that a stubborn atheist such as myself can use The Group as a placeholder for a higher power if I must...Fuck that...You are not a runner up prize. You are not a crutch I can rely on until I learn to believe in intelligent mystical forces like a NORMAL person. You are not a placeholder for my higher power...YOU my fellow alcoholic are powerful. ..Your power is in your stories your love for me your desire to see me do well and your pain you are brave enough to share with me. This power of yours gives me strength that I cannot muster on my own. ..Your power is in your acceptance of me because we're all there with one goal even if my path looks different than yours. (Even those of you who aren't great at that. You're still mostly nice and well-meaning!)..Your powerful cheers and claps feed the hole where my soul isn't when I mumble my name and the number of days I have. ..You are powerful when I look lost in the hallway of a church I've never been to before and you ask if I'm there for the AA meeting. With a wink you say "Follow me you're in the right place." (In the right place! Get it? Like the saying from the meetings!?!)..You with high bottoms are powerful for letting me know I don't need to sink further to belong here and get help...You with low bottoms are powerful for giving me vivid "yets" to remind me why I don't drink. (Plus we all know your shares are the best.)..You old timers with thirty-something years are powerful...You newcomers in your first second or third meeting brave enough to introduce yourself are powerful...You newcomers who are AGAIN in your first thirty days are powerful...You are powerful for being a room full of people who stopped drinking with varying degrees of success because I want what you have and you have the power to help me...You ARE powerful and I needed to tell you that. Both as a reminder to me because there are those who try to tell us otherwise and as gratitude to you because you deserve it. Don't let it go to your head because most of us are as bad at handling our egos as we are at handling our liquor. You just by knowing what we're going through and loving us anyway are someone's Higher Power...So try not to shit on that alright? I may never believe in a spirit or feel it wake up but if I live sober and find serenity am I really doing it wrong?..30 days today. That puts my sobriety date at April 1st.  That's just so damn perfect I think I'm gonna keep it...TL;DR.Atheists succeeding in the program please commiserate and more importantly offer advice..Atheists irritated with the program you are not alone..Everyone else succeeding in the program please feel appreciated and offer advice too if you want but I've probably heard it and it probably didn't help much.,12,68evlp,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/68evlp/cory_alcoholic_30_days_nonbeliever/,25,2017-04-30T06:45:02
ferretface26,Why giving up is the best thing I ever did! (xpost /r/stopdrinking),TL;DR: Ferretface26 one year ago: miserable depressed and drunk. Ferretface26 today: sober happy and hopeful. Big thanks to AA for making it possible...A year ago I woke up with one single thought in my head: I can't do this anymore. Not I won't or I don't want to or I shouldn't; I *can't* do this anymore. The blackouts the hangovers the guilt shame and remorse the hiding and the lying and just all the general bullshit that goes along with being an active alcoholic. On the outside I had a decent life: mid-twenties career city apartment living the dream. Underneath I was lonely depressed isolated anxious and tired. I wasn't actively suicidal but my thoughts ran in that direction more often than not and I was tired of life. I felt cheated like I'd worked hard to "make it" and be an adult and now that I was here it wasn't all that great. ..I started drinking in my teens and from the beginning I never drank like other people. There was no such thing as "one drink". I drank to get drunk always. In the beginning I wanted the confidence and fuzzy happy feeling I got from being drunk; by the end I just wanted to forget and be numb. I drank every day from the moment I got home pouring a drink before I'd taken my work clothes off and I kept drinking until I ran our or passed out. I was missing work forgetting events. My life was no bigger than work where I struggled through hungover and my apartment where the majority of my drinking occurred. ..365 days ago I gave up. I couldn't do this anymore. I'd known I was an alcoholic for some time and that I needed to stop but I couldn't accept the fact that I would have to stop completely. I had tried moderation programs and controlled drinking I had made a thousand promises to myself and I'd broken all of them on the same day. 365 days ago I finally surrendered and I put the bottle down hopefully for the last time in my life. ..There's a song by Rise Against called The Black Market and the chorus reminds me of those days...> I'm falling on my knees right now..> I'm covered in the mess I made..> These colors used to wash right out..> But now they are a part of me..> And I've been searching for a remedy..> When all along it's been in front of me..I had researched AA before but always been too scared to actually do anything. But after two days dry sitting in my apartment feeling like I was going stir-crazy and every minute feeling like an hour I fronted up to my first AA meeting walked around the block nearly walked away and then finally walked inside and took a seat. I was greeted with coffee and kindness and I left feeling hope for the first time in what felt like years. They told me to keep coming back and I didn't have any better ideas so I did. ..The last twelve months have been a journey sometimes uncomfortable often slow occasionally shitty frequently hilarious and the hope I felt at my first meeting has continued to grow. Long story short I found a sponsor threw myself into AA service started the steps and tried to half-ass them did too much service got resentful got shitty threw my hands in the air laughed at my ridiculousness and gave up found another sponsor started working the steps again threw myself into them for good. ..Today I'm happy. I'm content. And compared to the ferretface26 of 12 months ago that's a freaking miracle. I can sit with myself now without needing a distraction or liquid amnesia. I'm ok with myself as a person I actually kind of like myself most days. I still have shitty days and I still sometimes feel jealous when I see people enjoying a drink (particularly if I walk past a beer garden on hot Saturday afternoon). But I've come to realise that I am powerless over alcohol. One drink is too many and a thousand never enough. I have an allergy and I can't drink. So I don't drink. ..This is only one day at a time. Every morning I pray for another sober day and every evening I am grateful when my head hits the pillow and I haven't had a drink. I came in looking for a "fix" and I now know that I will likely never be "fixed". But I have a daily reprieve and as long as I put in the work I have a real chance at making this stick. And that's alright hell that's better than alright...I'm grateful for the friendships I've made in AA and the various groups I attend regularly. Attending AA seemed like the scariest and most depressing thing in the world to me at the beginning. Now I see that giving up going to a meeting and reaching out for help is the best thing I could ever have done. Here's to the next 365 days; I'll keep coming back.,11,66h8wl,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/66h8wl/why_giving_up_is_the_best_thing_i_ever_did_xpost/,6,2017-04-20T08:05:50
saddrunkgirl,"Find other ways to deal with your issues",I don't know what to do. I feel incredibly hurt right now. I'm using my throwaway because reasons...Anyway I'm currently living in a country where being an alcoholic is very taboo. I was struggling - a lot. I was fortunate enough to find two other people in the program and we started meeting. I had a horrible weekend. I relapsed and made an awful mistake and have just been sick about it...Anyway after our meeting yesterday I got a message from one of my group members. (Here's where it becomes important to point out that I am a woman he is a married man. Nothing has ever happened between us. He has just been a great support system in a very lonely place and situation. In fact both of the other group members are married men but I am incredibly grateful to have fellow AAs man or woman.) ..The messages turned out to be from his wife. They read "I don't like you meeting with my husband. I saw you at [local bar] completely drunk. We were making fun of you and [random person]. I have no desire to have you around my family....please find other ways to deal with your issues."..There were some other messages but that was the gist of it. I messaged back and said I had no bad intentions with her husband and she should talk to him about it...I am so angry and hurt. I know "what others think of me is none of my business" but it's definitely hard. It's a reminder about my embarrassing actions when I was drinking and that other people remember (even when I don't). (Also no shit she saw me at a bar drunk. I'm an alcoholic.) It also makes me mad that she's so callous - like who is she to tell me to stop going to this AA group?..On the other hand I do understand her fear. I'm not a good person when I'm drinking. But I'm just incredibly hurt by what she said and I suppose on a deeper level just by the fact that I've continued to embarrass myself and make terrible mistakes when I drink no matter where I am in the world. I made a reputation for myself in less than a month. ..I told my AA friend I'd be happy to meet with her and I would. Honestly I was hoping to become friends with her before this happened. I need female friends who understand alcoholism/don't drink/will be okay with me not drinking. I hope she wants to meet with me and I do want to smooth this over. But the selfish egotistical part of me wants to blow up at her even though I know that a) won't help anything b) will only make be feel better in the short term and c) won't make her feel better because she's hurting too. ..I guess I'm just hurt embarrassed and also the selfish part of me is not feeling sympathetic even though I know trust issues are incredibly painful and difficult to deal with...Tl;dr: wife of a fellow AA says she doesn't want me around her husband and I need to find "other ways of dealing with my issues.",2,66f5gg,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/66f5gg/find_other_ways_to_deal_with_your_issues/,13,2017-04-19T23:12:14
alwaysgr33n,English AA in Porto Portugal,I am traveling to Porto Portugal at the end of the week and was hoping to find and English speaking AA meeting.  I am struggling heavily with the AA website.  If there is no English AA I would settle for an English NA or any AA meeting.,5,664xtv,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/664xtv/english_aa_in_porto_portugal/,6,2017-04-18T15:05:28
mordo212,Got ambushed by someone after speaking at a commitment tonight.,Tonight I went on a commitment with my home group and I spoke before the break.  I shared about how the first year can kind of suck and how it's not rainbows and unicorns like so many people talk about.  I also share about. You struggles with a higher power currently. ..So we hit break time and this guy catches me in the hall and grabs me by the wrist and says I want to talk to you.  So I let go of the fact he touched me.  He immediately starts talking about God and asking me if I pray everyday.  I tell him that as he heard I still struggle with a higher power at eleven months.  ..Next thing I know he starts with Jesus and pulls out a mini bible and tries to hand it to me.  I resist the urge to tell him off for multiple reasons.  So I just say "Sir I am here for a spiritual but  not religious program where I can find a higher power of my own understanding". He seems taken aback by this as I just stand there and let him peter himself out.  ..All in all if you want to drive me out of a meeting just tell me about a religious God and how I need one.  And don't ever fucking touch me. ,11,65n1jz,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/65n1jz/got_ambushed_by_someone_after_speaking_at_a/,25,2017-04-15T22:51:54
Bluegrazsnelson0289,I'm a struggling alcoholic. I haven't join a fellowship--- I'm not really sure why. I keep making excuses for myself. I chronically see myself as "not having a problem" and so does my partner. I'm ready to be free of my addiction but fear judgement from my co workers and friends. Where do I start?,[none],8,65luf3,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/65luf3/im_a_struggling_alcoholic_i_havent_join_a/,16,2017-04-15T18:28:28
miloe500,34 Year Old Alcoholic.,I just discovered this Reddit page and it has been very helpful to get me through tough moments. I'm looking forward to reading more of people's stories and thought I'd share a little about myself. ..I am an alcoholic. I started drinking when I was 18. Initially it was the typical club college early 20s way to pass the time. My drinking progressed when I started graduate school. For the first time I began using alcohol it to help me sleep. Then it became a crutch for which I relied to manage every emotion...When I graduated from grad school my mother was diagnosed with stage 4 cancer. I was with her when the doctor advised that she only had a little time. This was devastating as she was the most important person in the world to me...For the next year I watched my mother die slowly from cancer. On weekends when it was my time to care for her I began the morning drinking. My constant state of drunkenness numbed the pain fear and anger Inside. ..My mother passed a year later. But my drinking continued. I was in a constant state of intoxication. I had become chemically dependent and would get shakes in the morning. I simply couldn't focus without having liquor in my blood stream. ..That lasted 5 years with a few days of abstinence on my own self will which didn't get me far. I made countless promises to myself and my SO that I would stop and start fresh on Monday. Inevitably I'd end up drinking Monday morning. I knew things had to change. ..I went to AA for the first time on August 11 2016 at 1:45pm. I was drunk. I arrived at AA from a bar I had been drinking at since 10am that morning. It was the same bar I had got into a bar fight at the night before. I didn't realize how insane that was at the time. I'm not a trouble maker and wasn't looking for another fight. It was simply the only bar I knew of that opened that early in the morning. ..What did it for me that day was my father calling me. He talked to me about my drinking. I could hear fear in his voice. He's one of the most fearless men I know. At that moment I decided I had to do something. I looked up a meeting and took an Uber to the closest one leaving a half bottle of beer on the bar counter. ..I walked in after the meeting had started. It's as if I needed the "courage" of intoxication to say I needed help. ..The meeting was packed. I sat next to an old timer. In my drunken state I tried to share. The old timer told me to be quiet - I couldn't disrespect the fellowship while being drunk. Firm but fair. He held my hand while me a grown man was crying. I can't describe the hopelessness I felt. ..After the meeting several members gave me their numbers and took mine. They gave me literature I was in no state of mind to digest at the time. ..The next morning I was struggling with a bad hangover. I was gripped with anxiety between bouts of throwing up. I knew that a beer would dilute the knot in my chest and make me feel "normal." I also knew that if I took that first drink I'd be off the the races again...As I was pacing the living room my phone rang. It was one of the guys from the AA fellowship I met the day before. He asked me how I was feeling. I told him the truth i.e. that I was struggling like hell not to go out and have a drink. He told me that the fellowship was open and I should just come and hang out. I took his advice. It was either that or get drunk again. ..When I arrived there was a bunch of guys playing dominoes and drinking coffee. It was 11am. One of the guys who I have never met before took a look at me and said in an upbeat tone "you're in the right place." That meant a great deal to me. ..During that day I sat in on three meetings. After the afternoon meeting an old timer noticed me trembling and unable to sit still. He said casually "you'll be alright." I didn't believe him. ..I stayed at that fellowship the entire day. From 11am in the morning until they closed at 9pm that night. For most of the day I simply told myself "if you're here you're not going to drink so stay here." ..That first week was tough but things got easier. I felt like there was actually hope after listening to the incredible stories from the other members. I hadn't felt hope in a long time. ..I continued to go back and my life immediately started to improve in the typical way that it does mental clarity peace of mind weight loss better sleep reduced fears work productivity increases better relationships etc. I began enjoying living...From August to November I was able to stay sober in New Orleans (on Bourbon street for a 6 day bachelor party) Hawaii for a wedding and Miami for another wedding. I had a better time on those trips then others I've taken during my drinking career. In fact my friends at the bachelor party were a bit jealous that I saw most of the city of NOLO while they didn't leave Bourbon street. ..I wish I could say that I've stayed sober since August. That is not my story. There have been a few times since November that I've attempted in vain to try some controlled drinking. It failed. The common denominator for all these occasions was that I stopped going to meetings for several days. It was amazing how quickly my mental state went back to the feeling of impending doom after drinking. It's as if the serenity I've felt cannot coexist with any amount of alcohol in my system. ..I've got seven days today after my last attempt at drinking like a normal person (which ended with me consuming 10-12 drinks). I still struggle with that obsession that somehow someday I will be able to drink like a normal person despite all the evidence that I cannot. It's a hard pill to swallow but a necessary one if I want to live a happy life...About the only truth I've come to about myself is that for whatever reason I don't drink on days I go to meetings. Admittedly there are days like today where I absolutely did not want to go. I went anyway. Currently the desire to not drink outweighs the desire to not be sober. I'll take that for today and I will keep going back one day at a time. ..I desperately want to return to that place of serenity I was at earlier in the year. ..Thanks! . ..,14,65gaex,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/65gaex/34_year_old_alcoholic/,7,2017-04-14T20:30:36
Thr0wNaway_h34rt,Heartbroken and unsure how to proceed.,First time here and this will be long. Sorry..I'm five days sober. My drinking was getting out of hand - again - and my husband had enough. He told me he didn't want to be married to me anymore and said he would only consider not divorcing me if I stopped drinking for good. I threw my beloved wine in the trash and haven't touched the stuff since. I swore I would change and I'm working on it. Spending more time with our two kids finding constructive things to do. He's come around but only after two full days of hostility and berating. He wore me down to a nub although this is one of the most difficult things I have ever done and I am doing it to try to save our family our relationship myself. It sucks in more ways than I can describe..So like I said he finally came around and we've been talking albeit with difficulty. The discussions have been productive although the hurt still remains. We've been together 12 years. He is my best friend. Hearing him say he didn't want to be married to me anymore cut me on half. I can't get those words out of my head. I can't help but think he is still going to decide he no longer wants to be with me and I'm devastated at the thought. But I'm dealing and trying to work with him through our issues while trying to sort out my own. .Progress was being made until today. I got groceries after work picked up the kids and came home. I opened the fridge and that motherfucker bought himself a 12 pack of beer. I was immediately irate. I can't even look at him. After all the hurt over the last week and my struggling with both relationship and self shittiness I got the message loud and clear that either he doesn't care or is just so naturally selfish he didn't even think about what it means to support me through this. I should note this ain't our first rodeo. I was sober a couple of years ago but fell back in the same old hole. He knows better. .It's not the most callous thing anyone has ever done to me but it's up there. I guess I'm just looking for a little support and maybe some advice about how to handle this shit sandwich without smearing it all over the walls of my increasingly broken home. Thanks in advance. And I still an not going to drink today. .,9,64nzkg,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/64nzkg/heartbroken_and_unsure_how_to_proceed/,14,2017-04-10T21:55:08
mordo212,Almost a year sober and exciting new lows,Hi as the title says I have just short of 11 sober and for a while things did get better. I was diagnosed bi polar got put on meds that stabilized me. Had my best friend come. Back into my life. I find out she has terminal cancer. Well at least I have time left with her. Since then I got out of a halfway house and moved home. Still going in the right direction right...Fast forward to one month ago . I get home from dropping my friend off at her boyfriends house that is two hours she has been staying with me a bunch when she is getting treatment. away and go to bed. I wake up and notice my cell phone is shut off. I am not good at paying bills even when I have money. So I bust out my debit card and go to pay my bill. Declined OK fat fingered it declined declined. Color me confused I have thousands in the bank. So I head to my bank to see what's up. All my money is gone. Every last penny gone. I start freaking out and having a panic attack. I back into someone at the bank. Thankfully only damage to my car. This is the high point of my day by the way. I go to call my friend as she pretty much my non Healthcare related support system. No answer eh she sleeps a ton from chemo. Next day J hear from the bank and all the transactions are atm withdrawals at the branch down the street from my house. Then it hits me. She hasn't been anwsering calls because she stole all the money...My world starts collapsing around me. So I start with the bank on what needs to be done. Step one sigh. Police report. Step two fraud cases. Step three agree to prosecute my dying best friend. This is where I start to really struggle bad. I have all kinds of family members telling me I am stupid for trusting her and have to hate her. My therapist and psychiatrist take a more gentle approach and don't accuse me of being stupid. My sponsor is somewhere in between...Worst thing of all I don't know of any way to deal with this. I keep going to my AA meetings and start hanging around my old. Halfway house as I am unemployed. My depression and rage are getting worse. And the swings between them are happening very rapidly. I start flipping out at people at meetings. My psychiatrist changes up my dosages...All this while I have been job hunting as it's a condition of me being able to live at home. I've been looking for almost 4 months for a job in my career field. No luck finding anything. I start having really dark moments. I can't peel myself out of bed some days other times I can't sleep for days at a time. I start thinking of checking myself into a psych unit for a check up. Of course a company calls and wants to do an interview. I do the phone interview. Next day come on in for a interview. I go in and for once nail an interview. Two days later lunch with the company president. Great he wants to drink with lunch. Yeah I'll be like oh hey I'm a vicious heinous alcoholic. Oh and I'm also bipolar who just had his best friend rip his heart out and rob him blind. I manage to not drink and let him think I don't have a problem...They higher me. I was hoping they wouldn't because my mental state is spiraling further down by the day. So I start work and the job is going well enough...I have gone against advice of family other friends my sponsor and Healthcare pros. I have been trying to reach out to talk to the person who stole from me to support an old opiate habit that relapsed once the prescription pain meds started. She won't talk to me at all. This is the most painful thing of all. Fuck the money I want smalls back. I finally managed to get her on the phone and text for about 10 minutes. And I quote..Her " I'm done..giving up..so I don't need it. And I'm sorry...."..Me" So am I. What hurt more than the most was losing my best friend "..Her" Well I'll be a distant memory in a few days...i did love u..plz stop I'm not worth anything and can't handle life..like I said I'm done .take care and be good to urself u deserve the best and ur capable and strong..take care my old friend...till we meet again"..I am scared. I don't have my best friend. I'm starting a new job and am going to be without health insurance for 3 months. I am scared I may start having more dangerous thoughts and if I bail on my first good paying job in years well I'm fucked on that. I just don't know what to do..,4,64b16c,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/64b16c/almost_a_year_sober_and_exciting_new_lows/,5,2017-04-08T22:58:06
muzik4life92,Hi. Not sure what to do but I'd like to chat.,(I don't know if this is how it works on this sub but I figured I'd just give it a shot since I'm already drunk)..I've been drinking for at least three years now. Before the booze it was pot. I feel lucky that I only had a couple run-ins with harder drugs during that time because I could see it becoming a much larger issue... I have a girlfriend who loves me a family who loves me and so many who would be willing to help me. But whenever I'm not with them I want to drink. When I have a night away from my girlfriend I want to drink. I went to a couple meetings but couldn't get past the heavy implications of giving yourself up to a greater power. I don't believe in god and I'm not religious but I don't know why that would be the thing that holds me back. ..I'm lying to my family. I'm lying to my girlfriend. I come from a family of alcoholics but I still struggle with the excuse that "it runs in the family." I'm still very young and I know I can do better than this but I don't know how. And I hate myself for it. ..Why do I have to give myself up to a higher power that I don't believe in to finally quit drinking? How can I not find the power within myself? ,2,61xn52,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/61xn52/hi_not_sure_what_to_do_but_id_like_to_chat/,10,2017-03-28T02:00:58
[deleted],I am struggling. Drank so much last night after starting working with a sponser 2 weeks ago. I need help.,[deleted],11,61wowt,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/61wowt/i_am_struggling_drank_so_much_last_night_after/,21,2017-03-27T22:24:15
King_Baboon,Definitely due for a 4th Step.,My 11 year old son has now been diagnosed with a panic disorder.  Since I was about his age I have dealt with a panic disorder and my father did as well...Like alcoholism people who don't have a panic disorder simply do not understand what it feels like.  My son has had to go to Children's Hospital three times because of panic and worse a negative reaction to Zoloft.  As great as Children's Hospital is they are terrible at anything reference psychiatric services.  The three times he had to go he was brought in vitals checked taken to another room to talk to a counselor then the counselor talks to a psychiatrist (which I have yet to actually ever see) makes a few recommendations and they discharge him.  No different then when I was a kid (in the 1980's) you would think our mental health care system would of advanced in the last 20+ years but from what I have seen not much has changed...It took a month of emergency room visits for the doctor to finally come to the conclusion that the Zoloft he was taking was making his panic attacks worse.  Very infuriating.  He's struggling in school and it kills me to see he is suffering and i feel powerless that there is nothing I can do about it...So many resentments and fears I need to list on a 4th Step.  Also I'm about to take my ex-wife back to court because I'm going for full custody of my two kids because his mother is enabling his panic attacks...I've done many inventories over the 10 years I've been sober.  This one I need to do is crucial to my emotional sobriety.  ..Please reply I need you all in the program right now.,6,5zxi2u,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/5zxi2u/definitely_due_for_a_4th_step/,4,2017-03-17T09:15:32
neonbirthmark,5 1/2 months sober here. Having a rough night. Meeting aren't happening around me. Just want to share the struggle with another alky. PM me if you need to talk.,[none],12,5ywmd1,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/5ywmd1/5_12_months_sober_here_having_a_rough_night/,6,2017-03-11T21:58:06
Aphk312,I want a drink so bad that I am afraid to leave my house.,There is a bar next door and my body is screaming for a drink. I am trying to fold laundry and I just want to get smashed. I usually give up alcohol for lent and so does my husband. He is on my nerves and the kids are sick and I have had a long day. I don't want to call my sponsor. I told her earlier I was going to go to a meeting today but I missed it. My husband just left to go get himself some beer for his last drink before lent. I told him it was fine but it's not. I am stressed and was going to take a benadryl and go to bed and he told me I couldn't and that he needed help with the kids that I can't just check out of today and he needs me to take care of them. I am done with today. I want to go to bed. I have been taking care of them all day. I am struggling. I could run to the bar while he is gone I don't want to drink but I want the feelings to go away. The aggravation. The anger. The sadness. I am overwhelmed. I don't want to be like this. I am already checking out. Screw him I am taking a benadryl and going to bed. ,4,5wsa70,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/5wsa70/i_want_a_drink_so_bad_that_i_am_afraid_to_leave/,8,2017-02-28T20:57:56
dathrowaway1010101,Everyday.,I guess this is considered an attempt for help. I struggle like so many others with alcohol. I haven't had a drink for roughly 2 months. That sounds fine but I might as well be drinking because I'm constantly wanting and thinking of having a drink everyday since. Everyday and for the most part all day. The thoughts will pop up in the morning when i wake up then they are more or less littered in my mind throughout the rest of the day. Next morning i wake up and same thing. I even watch the show intervention to try and show myself that that is where ill be if i continue to drink. (Pretty pathetic) But as of right now i don't believe I'm an alcoholic though i feel i have the potential to be really bad. My poisons of choice are beer and whiskey. I consider myself a binge drinker though I'm not even sure thats correct. Usually i will drink very regularly for up to 3 months in one case then ill take anywhere from 1 month to 3 months off. I will usually stop because the drinking reaches a sort of "climax" where it's extremely bad to the point of alcohol poisoning in a few cases. Either that or my drinking will end in some form of public embarrassment in one case where I've lost a really good job because of it. I have never talked with anyone about this and i guess I'm just looking for some advice. I want to give in absolutely but i know its the worst thing for me. Thanks for reading if you've made it this far any help or advice would be appreciated thank you. ,2,5vx250,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/5vx250/everyday/,6,2017-02-24T06:51:49
Grinberg459,5th step struggle,So my sponsor told me to go to a priest to do it but I really don't want to. What can I do instead?,6,5u628f,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/5u628f/5th_step_struggle/,25,2017-02-15T02:23:16
pdx1116,scared to go to aa,I'm 32 years old. A responsible healthcare professional with an advanced degree. Financially stable. No "problems" from most people's view of me. No legal issues just a couple of significant regrets regarding what I said to people and nearly starting a fire by falling asleep/blacking out while cooking pizza.....twice. I started drinking casually only about 5 years ago. I'd drank on occasion prior but gradually over the last 5 years it has worsened. I knew I liked (a bit too much) all along but I was almost 29 before it started to be ANY sort of issue. ..I drink when I go out and that's not a problem. It's essentially only when I'm home that I struggle. It started with one beer at night and spiraled. I know I have a problem. Drinking for the purpose of feeling that high when you're alone isn't good. Blacking out isn't good. (and it is devastating to wake up and wonder who you text etc....). I quit I start I quit I start..............I want to go to AA but have no idea what it's like and am scared to death to try it. There is even group one block from my house every evening. Can anyone else give me thoughts? What was your first time going like? Do I have to say anything? can I just sit and listen at first? would that be weird? ..What can I order if I'm out?? I quite often when out order vodka soda with lime.... ok to just say I'd like Soda water with lime??? I'm clueless...:/,3,5txs14,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/5txs14/scared_to_go_to_aa/,34,2017-02-13T22:33:27
Jemimapuddlemuck,The difference between being an alcoholic and having a drink problem.,So I have been struggling with my drinking for a very long time. I do not drink everyday but I reach black out stage about 50% of the times I do drink and I'm 26 and have been doing this since my teens I'll get shit faced wake up hating life be ill for a few days feel better repeat my boyfriend is very supportive and we had a talk about things and he doesn't think I'm an alcoholic and I don't tick all the boxes on the is 'AA for me' section of the website. I have a desire to stop drinking but just wish I could handle myself. Is there anything I can do to stop myself spiraling as I havn't hit rock bottom but think I need help still.,3,5sdb87,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/5sdb87/the_difference_between_being_an_alcoholic_and/,18,2017-02-06T04:36:27
mermaid14,I really don't want to drink anymore,I'm writing here because I really really want to stop drinking. I used to binge drink like crazy in college and then before my 3rd year I met my boyfriend. I stopped drinking when I was with him and I thought he cured me. But recently we've decided to take time apart and I've spiraled down into that "oh I'll have one drink" phase that turns into 12 drinks..I've really just been trying to find help and I've heard AA meetings are the best place but I'm kinda stuck in a weird place cause my mom was an alcoholic so she goes to the meetings near me that I would go to and I really don't want to go to a meeting with my mother cause you know..that's just weird.what do you guys suggest? I really hate drinking and every morning I wake up is a struggle with me constantly telling myself "DON'T DRINK TODAY!!" It's such a struggle and I really don't want it to be. I don't get it and I just want to be able to live my life without alcohol.,6,5s6iup,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/5s6iup/i_really_dont_want_to_drink_anymore/,9,2017-02-05T04:09:47
mistercee888,You guys rock!,I'm currently trying to kick my alcohol problem and it's been really tough. I'd just like to thank all you guys in this community for your positivity and support. I had a tough last couple of days and after leaving a post asking for advice regarding this the support I got was amazing. I really feel like you guys are genuinely supporting me and I really hope that some day I'll be able to do the same for some other redditor going through the same struggles that I am now. I did not drink today and I pushed  through 2 very tough days ! Thanks to you awesome guys. .Thank you sincerely. ,7,5rpjk2,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/5rpjk2/you_guys_rock/,2,2017-02-02T16:18:16
[deleted],I'm a 4th year medical student struggling with an alcohol problem.,I'm pretty much a functional alcoholic. As the title states I'm in my 4th year of medical school. Drinking never affects my days. But at night I'll say to myself "ok 1 beer" and I end up killing the 6 pack. Again it has not caused any issues in my life thus far but I know I cannot keep living like this without serious medical issues (duh! I'm a doctor pretty much). I just needed to vent. I created a throwaway account just for this. None of my friends and family know about this issue at all. To them I'm just a bright kid on his way to success. Which I am. You know what else I am? Lonely. I just want to talk. Please comment.,6,5ouwkf,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/5ouwkf/im_a_4th_year_medical_student_struggling_with_an/,10,2017-01-19T00:51:06
wetbuckets,Three days sober. Struggling.,I have been attending a few AA meetings and I can barely relate to anything people say. I feel like an outsider and I just want to get drunk and loaded but I don't want to die so I'm kind of caught between a rock and a hard place. ,12,5o7s6x,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/5o7s6x/three_days_sober_struggling/,17,2017-01-15T20:11:35
Ladymilo,Struggling with step 5,I'm not sure how to do my fifth step. I've done step 4 and ready to do step 5 but unlike step 4 where there was a structured way to write it out I don't know what I'm supposed to write? Any guidance would be great. ,3,5n25i6,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/5n25i6/struggling_with_step_5/,8,2017-01-09T21:06:10
xxOphelia,Mother ashamed of drinking and going to AA,My mother has been drinking for 5 years now. She is 48yo and before she never(!) drunk. Her father is an alcoholic and mother is a benzodiazepine addict. .She is a well-educated good looking woman who is prejudiced about AA. I'm from a post-soviet country so the stereotype of an alcoholic shows "a drunk Russian man without teeth". We hardly even use term "alcoholic" but "drunkard". .She started to think about treatment one year ago but shame and social stigma is something that stops her for going from thought to action. It is a progress though because before she was in a complete denial. She didn't wan to be associated with homeless "drunkards". ..Today she showed a slight interest in AA. .How should I talk to her? I'm afraid to take her to a random meeting since she might get easily discouraged. ..She struggles also with depression anxiety and insomnia. She mostly uses alcohol to fall asleep and then she binge-drinks (3-4days)...Thanks for the support!,1,5m2jc9,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/5m2jc9/mother_ashamed_of_drinking_and_going_to_aa/,5,2017-01-04T18:06:48
UnshiveredTimbers,I screwed up. I'm trying to set things right and I could use some advice.,I'm 29 years old and after 10 years of heavy alcohol and drug abuse I finally went to treatment and started getting my life on track.  I just passed the 6 month sober mark recently and start a new job in two weeks.  My family is letting me stay with them and have been amazingly supportive and loving I honestly couldn't be more blessed...Although alcohol was my major demon I've also struggled with painkillers and recently I found my mom's stash of pain meds and ate them all.  I cannot describe the amount of shame I feel and am struggling to understand how quickly I went from where I've come to right back to my old ways...Instead of riding down the spiral again I am going to fess up to my actions and apologize to my family and continue striving towards sobriety.  I hope that they don't kick me out but it's a very real possibility.  I would deserve it and will accept whatever reaction they dish out willingly...My dilemma is this; do I come clean tomorrow and ruin the holiday for them or do I wait until after and explain why I waited?  I fear that it will destroy them although I haven't had a drink in 6 months and intend to continue my abstinence this is a major blow to the trust I was building back up with them...Any advice would be greatly appreciated.,9,5jvef6,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/5jvef6/i_screwed_up_im_trying_to_set_things_right_and_i/,7,2016-12-23T00:15:19
ladyhelena,Spreading the message,So I need some advice fellows. I've got a young friend (19) who has finally reached a breaking point-she wants to check out the program. She has struggled with drug abuse but not alcohol as far as I know. So she wants to check out NA. She said she would like to go to a meeting with me but I've never been to an NA meeting. I know it's the same shit different pile but I also have heard some mixed reviews on the NA communities in our city. So would I be doing her a disservice to take her to AA? Should I try and get her to an NA meeting? Is there something NA rooms will offer that AA will not?.Thanks in advance. ,5,5jb0wj,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/5jb0wj/spreading_the_message/,8,2016-12-19T22:35:54
dontkmowwhy89,Why can't I stop???,Maybe this is a rant...maybe it's not. I don't know where to start. Alcohol? Maybe? I have drank a whole bottle of wine! I want more...I can't stop. Once I have a drink I keep wanting more. I have a daughter...someone who loves me despite my flaws. She will never call me an alcoholic...or will she? She is 6 and I am almost to 30. Why can't I 'get right' why can't I get normal? I am nothing but a flaw. She is my everything and I do nothing but disappoint. She deserves more and I don't want to go on. I try...and try and try. But do I really try? I go one day and then the next I need alcohol. Why do I need it? Why do I taste it every day? Why is it a struggle to leave alcohol? I know it's no good. Maybe it's a flaw. I hate that I love the sweet taste of alcohol. She is my world. She makes me want to do better. How do I leave this substance that is killing me slowly. I hate that I had her because I am no mom at all!!! I drink at night and say she is safe while I pass out from my drunken haze. The next day I put on a show...making.The same mistakes over and over. When will I do better? She is the only reason to stay?  I fear I have lost myself to this drink...if only I would stop and think! She is.my world! I would do anything to give her the world. Yet I can not stop taking a drink. Please god tell me why I drink!!!! Is it because of how I grew up? Because my mother may have been a drunk? I only remember the happy times but what if I pushed all the others aside? How can I be better maybe better than her. Maybe there is no such thing because I have failed at everything. I feel like a loser who can't keep her composure. Everyday trying to deal with a different emotion. Maybe it's for the best and I should just let her be with her dad...it.Could be for the best. He doesn't drink and he doesn't care that this alcoholism is for the bears:(  how can I shake it and how can I make it?? I need advice because I don't know how to stop the cravings. I can't have just one because I will drink up all that offered. You don't have to tell me twice o have already planned the order and flavored. I just want a drink why can't I  think???,5,5hv9md,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/5hv9md/why_cant_i_stop/,13,2016-12-12T02:01:44
slavetothewhiskey,Getting sober before I'm even 21,Hello all I'm new to this whole recovery thing and could really use some support....I started drinking a few months after I turned 18 I was on my own and had never tried it before. A bit of history I struggle with panic disorder and have tried many things to take the edge off of my mental disorder. ...I'm not going to lie it worked great alcohol helped me socialize it motivated me it made me like myself more (or made me think I liked myself more)....The problem didn't start until I was 19 I meant a guy who was 24 and we started dating and he was drinking all the time. We started dating based purely on the fact that we liked the same alcohol and could handle similar amounts. I drank from my 19th birthday until my 20th birthday 365 days of drinking 1/5ths of whiskey cases of beer jugs of wine all to myself. Everywhere I went to socialize I brought alcohol even if it wasn't the scene to do so because I couldn't have fun without it. It became a crutch....I honestly didn't know I had a problem up until 3 months ago when friends and family expressed their concerns about me. I thought I was fine so I tried to prove to them that I didn't need it. That's when I realized how bad it was. After a few weeks my relationship fell apart and I realized me and this guy only had our alcoholism in common. I couldn't sleep for weeks I had terrible nightmares night sweats I would wake up and throw up and be shaky all day. I found myself on edge unable to concentrate....I'm 21 in 4 months and it feels awful to be here at this point and say I need help before I even got to know what it was like but today I'm a month sober. The questions I have are how can I stay sober through my 21st birthday? If any of you have any suggestions please let me know.  ,1,5gjscy,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/5gjscy/getting_sober_before_im_even_21/,7,2016-12-04T22:54:06
Mabeez7,Lorazepam,SO I've been struggling with alcoholism for a long time like many of you. I recently had a really hard night where I tried to kill myself and was taken to the ER. They prescribed me lorazepam to get me off of alcohol. Has anyone else had experiences with this prescription? The side effect are apparently suicidal tendencies which I am afraid of. ,3,5d0vuc,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/5d0vuc/lorazepam/,8,2016-11-15T00:25:44
allie-rva,5 years sober here I have a question for y'all,So my husband relapsed and came back to the rooms over the summer. He has three months again. It's been really difficult finding our footing through this. He is struggling with his higher power and disliking having to "have to do" certain things in order to stay sober. I asked him if it was the praying the step work the meetings that he disliked.... he doesn't know. ..I said "well it's better than using right? Or would you rather be doing that?" He said of course he'd rather be drunk and high everyday.... I got upset so he added "without consequence just like any other alcoholic or addict."..I told him I would really not want to drink again even if I had impunity. It was fun in the beginning but I can't even hypothetically say yeah I wanna drink like a normal drinker. Why? I drank until oblivion every time. I don't want that isolation anymore....TL;DR: If you could drink with impunity would you?,7,5bizbe,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/5bizbe/5_years_sober_here_i_have_a_question_for_yall/,23,2016-11-06T18:59:51
rucknovru2,Am I the only one who isolates during the holidays to stay sober?,I'm sitting on 3 years but I still struggle bad during the holidays. I'm grateful that normies like me enough to invite me to their parties but I always politely decline then they ask why and I tell them I become a werewolf when I drink they reply well come to the party and just don't drink. Hahahaha! Sometimes I laugh out loud when people suggest this method like I've never tried that a million times before. I never needed a holiday to get drunk before but from October to February it seems to be a hurricane season for drunkards like me. Peace to those others who struggle during this shitfest time of year now it's time to hit a meeting. ,9,5a67j4,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/5a67j4/am_i_the_only_one_who_isolates_during_the/,17,2016-10-30T10:20:38
LifeChangr,Struggling with the higher power concept..,Hi  .  .As an agnostic non religious person I'm having some difficulty with this concept philosophically. I know that your higher power can be anything that you want it to be.. I'm just having some issues with the concept. For instance let's say hypothetically there is some kind of guiding/helping "force" at work considering all the insanity going on in this world and people who are waaaay worse off than me I would think that this higher power would have far more pressing matters to deal with than keeping a drink out of my hand. It's hard for me to hear things like "If you stayed sober today then thank your higher power" This power needs to be thanked like it's a person? Also "Acceptance everything is how it should be nothing happens in God's world by mistake" Sooo... Determinism then? Everything is preordained? If that's the case then why am I thanking anything? And what is praying going to do if the course has already been charted?  .  .I'm trying to keep an open mind because I want this to work for me but I'm just having a hard time with it logically.. I know you can do: G.O.D (group of drunks) I might have to just stick with that I guess but that doesn't seem to completely work either but it's probably the best I can do right now.  .  .I'm hoping people who have wrestled with this in the past and managed to resolve it could share their thought process thanks.,8,59f5nv,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/59f5nv/struggling_with_the_higher_power_concept/,18,2016-10-25T22:24:53
[deleted],How do I practice acceptance?,2 years sober but I'm struggling to accept certain things and it seriously disturbing my serenity. Most of the issues are work related and run the gamut of usual complaints. I know that the disturbances I feel are being caused by my failure to accept people places things and situations as being exactly how they are supposed to be today. ..The question is HOW do I accept these things? Any advice on the steps to take? ,7,594ft8,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/594ft8/how_do_i_practice_acceptance/,9,2016-10-24T09:16:14
DeeevaJ,sober almost two weeks but....,Hey guys. I've struggled with alcohol for years and I've finally joined AA and I've been sober and feeling good for almost two weeks. The problem is that my husband who I love to bits still drinks. Alot. He thinks nothing of bringing alcohol into the house even though I asked him not to or at least cut back. I also think he resents me attending three meetings a week so being out of the house three nights a week. Anyone out there have advice? Or gone through something similar? How do I help him understand how aa works and how much this is going to be a struggle for me?,8,57otua,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/57otua/sober_almost_two_weeks_but/,12,2016-10-15T19:46:18
ZombieGirl1993,I'm not an alcoholic but...,I am the daughter of an alcoholic. I need a safe place to talk about my father. Does anyone know if I can go to an AA meeting just to talk and maybe get some advice on handling myself when I'm with my dad? I'm really struggling with my feelings right now.,15,56v1gd,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/56v1gd/im_not_an_alcoholic_but/,8,2016-10-10T19:15:28
putaquarterinyourass,I'm an alcoholic and evidently so is my new boss (and we both just found out at an AA meeting). Advice please!,Hello My name is putaquarterinyourass and I'm an alcoholic.  ..So I just moved across the country recently and started a new job. I have a nice wonderful family (Wife Kids Dog).  I drink a lot.  I hide my heavy drinking and mask it with beer.  No one is the wiser. ..I drink about a fifth of vodka a day.  Sometime less. Sometimes more.  I'm not violent but I get tired easily and can feel the longterm physical influence that his has been taxing on my body.  I've been doing this for about 10 years now.  I have slowly but surely worked my way up to this point. I've learned that I like to "maintain" a buzz. So I do maintenance drinking...I did attend meetings at my prior location but not regularly.  I tried to go to as many as I could but I just could not do that with my work schedule.  However I have the blue book and I have read about 1/3 of it.  After some time I could not bring myself to complete step #4 which seems like a very difficult step to accomplish!..So I wanted to try here in a new setting since it is a new job and location and I thought it would be nice to start over. I live in a rather large metropolitan area.  I now work for a rather large institution.  I chose to go to a meeting yesterday for the first time here somewhere not too close to home but on the way to work. I was greeted warmly as I always am when I go to a new meeting place by all of the well wishing folks who are also struggling with my addiction.  I was taken into THE room as is custom and we met with  each other for the first time.  We all told our stories and whatnot and talked for about an hour. It was a real nice experience...I decided to go back today before work.  I walked in. Was greeted by some of the folk that I met with yesterday. Sat down.  Had a cup of bad coffee.  Then my boss (my NEW BOSS) came in.  He was the speaker for the day.  I almost shit myself and I think he did too when he noticed me...Let's back up for a sec.  I just recently took this position and was hired along with a group of other new hires.  When we were all hired he had thrown a welcome party for all of us.  Drinks food music all fun stuff.  I played it cool and stuck too beer and water but everyone got hammered.  I (we I was with my family) left early and he seemed pretty drunk and it was clear as he was doing shots and drinking wine (not a great combo but who am I to judge).  ..So there I was sitting at an AA meeting with my very new boss who obviously knows about my situation and I know about his. Then I went off to work...The current work setting is odd.  I don't actually interact with him personally on a daily basis.  So I didn't actually see him today. However I do have a meeting with him tomorrow. At Noon.  High Noon.  And I've been drinking tonight. A Lot.  Super nervous and have lost some faith in the AA system.  Any advice would be helpful and greatly appreciated...BTW I am a long time lurker and this is my first reddit post.  I never had a reason to ask for advice from reddit until now.  Also am in need of help on how to quit now.  I just want to quit.. ,13,51pljh,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/51pljh/im_an_alcoholic_and_evidently_so_is_my_new_boss/,14,2016-09-08T00:34:06
cweaver8518,Wife fell off the wagon again...,Guess I just need to vent. Wife has struggled with alcoholism for years but she had been clean for 3+ years. She has suffered through depression and anxiety for years before alcoholism as well and had recently switched her anti depressant medication. This was Tuesday of last week. I was away visiting my ailing grandfather who lives in a different state and I suspected something odd then. Tuesday Wednesday Thursday our phone conversations get shorter and shorter which is odd because she's super chatty on the phone normally and I have to tell her goodbye about 30 times before she can actually hang up. ..Confronted her on Thursday on the phone about it she says it's the new meds. I'm inclined to believe her because she had gastric bypass surgery back in 2009 and ever since then her medication absorption is finicky. This wouldn't be the first time she had had a medication do something weird to her. A different medication once caused seizures(it was a known side effect but extremely rare. So much so that it wasn't listed and the pharmacist had to dig to find the warning of possible seizures in the side effect list cause he had never seen it happen for this particular med). ..Anyway I tell her to stop taking that med cause it's turning her into a zombie. Friday she's "tired" all day and slurring her words not a drunken slur but a genuine tired slur. I suspect the meds hadn't cleared out of her system yet. Saturday I fly back home she picks me up from the airport and she's still "tired" and has me drive home. She starts nodding off at her desk I take her to bed thinking long day long week first time I've been away from home for awhile and she had 3 kids tiring her out. Sunday: same thing. ..Tonight I went to bed early and she stumbles into the bedroom and lays sideways across the bed pushing me cause I had accidentally draped myself over her side of the bed. I moved and she laid down upside down on the bed and diagonally. I get up to go to the bathroom since she had woken me up and she was acting way more "tired" than the previous nights. Words incoherent and slurred. I ask if she's been drinking again. Her reply: "a bit"..I get up and dig around the house found a fifth of Grey Goose damn near drained. Dig through the trash found various bottles of alcohol everywhere. Vodka and wine are her drinks of choice. She had to have been drinking for a week and I should have known. ..This is a danger to our kids. I can't take this shit anymore. Every time it happens I think about what this does to our kids and I don't know that I can keep taking this risk even if she's been clean for awhile before this a small trigger and she's what driving my 3 year old to daycare drunk? Sleeping all day while I'm at work? Sneaking around alcohol and lying about it? Is there a support group for husbands of alcoholics? I'm just lost I don't even know what to do anymore   ..Edit: I'm not an alcoholic nor have I ever been. I had previously drank with her but it was rare/recreational and sparse and wasn't an alcoholism problem until after she had her gastric bypass surgery and lost a ton of weight then she drank to blackout multiple times. We confronted her alcoholism / wine obsession and never stored alcohol in the house afterwards but it took years of there being a problem and us denying that she was an alcoholic relapses here and there then a few more relapses under the guise of "I can control it" or allowing her only to drink with me or whatever other excuse myself or she could come up with until the last relapse where we swore to never do it again.,7,51dwop,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/51dwop/wife_fell_off_the_wagon_again/,6,2016-09-06T02:31:52
[deleted],Any non-Christians?,I think I really do need something like AA but in reading the literature I do tend to find all the spiritual and religious aspects to be a sort of mental hurdle for me to get on board with...I'm Catholic but I'm struggling to get over the spiritual language used...I'm curious... Are there any AA members here who are either not religious or have a different belief system that have managed to get past this idea? Can you help me?,8,51dkid,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/51dkid/any_nonchristians/,26,2016-09-06T00:43:44
MsGoLight,Here is a doozie for you!,So i've been going to AA since January 2nd. I find it helpful - but i am more "monitoring" than really participating.  No sponsor. Don't speak in meetings haven't gotten a SINGLE phone number.  I always hear at least one thing that I take with me - however i know that i need to get deeper in to really progress on my journey.  I go to a big co ed mid day meeting.  One day a woman i know - not from AA - walks in.  I HATE her.  I have very very good reason not to trust her.  A REALLY good reason.  It was a Friday.  I've never been back to a Friday meeting there.  .Recently i've been struggling.  And sure enough who walks into my Thursday meeting - but untrustworthy lady.   I got up and left.  I left because what should be the safest place on earth with her there turns incredibly unsafe for me.  So i was "talking" to my higher power saying "why would you put her in my path of recovery?!!!!!"  "why would you let her of all people come into my safe place."  I was pissed.  The other night lying in bed unable to sleep - i finally was quiet enough to hear the answer.  I need to change meetings.  The "voice" was clear.  While I like this meeting - it is too big so big  i can stay silent.  I don't have to be noticed.  If I am going to get all the things i want and know i need (sponsor network etc) I need a smaller group setting. I literally laughed out loud.  I haven't found that new meeting/group yet - but at least I know what i'm looking for.  I will not drink today - even though I really hate that lady!!!!.,3,4z3q74,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/4z3q74/here_is_a_doozie_for_you/,16,2016-08-22T20:29:53
left_clique,Higher Power Problem in AA,Thank God I never struggled with the God thing in AA.  I was listening to a Thich Nhat Hahn video "Awakening to your joy."  He mentioned an atheist French author and philosopher named Andre Gide who defined God as Truth and Happiness.  Thay is a Buddhist monk and zen master who is also atheist but  extremely spiritual.  He also talks a lot about the Kingdom of God without conflict.  I got to thinking about Truth and Happiness as a power greater than ourselves that could restore us to sanity.  The more I think about it the more it fits for me.  You know "the truth will set you free."  "This Naked Mind" talks a lot about accepting truth at the subconscious level.  Another definition that might be unobjectionable to atheists is God is Love.  Or best of all God is Truth Love and Happiness.  Are truth love and happiness a power sufficient to bring about the personality change necessary to recover from alcoholism?  What do you think about this conception of a higher power for those who find more traditional religious conceptions to be an impediment?,4,4y2kqz,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/4y2kqz/higher_power_problem_in_aa/,6,2016-08-16T19:36:02
PM_me_your_Jeep,50 days seemed like such an impossible number.,51 days ago I wanted to die. I'd had enough. You might be thinking "what the fuck PM_me_your_jeep?". I get it. I usually wore a smile on my face. I came to your party and made jokes. I played music in a band. I worked. I had relationships. I was your friend your brother your uncle your coworker your boyfriend and your drinking buddy. I took care of my dogs got my clothes dry cleaned put myself together and usually paid my bills. I served with you and had your back. But behind my eyes lived a person few had ever seen. That person lived in fear on a daily basis. Fear of what was in the past fear of the present and fear of the future. Fear of who he was and what you thought. Fear of being alone. That person didn't know how to deal with the physical and emotional trauma that had plagued his life since the age of 8. That person didn't think anyone cared. That person decided at 14 that being numb and not dealing with life pain and anxiety was the easier and gentler way to get by. Until is wasn't. Until the numbness didn't come quick enough until the numbness made the fear worse and until the numbness just wasn't enough...I thought I was good at hiding this person but I came to realize that this person had consumed me and I was only hiding the real me. The me with feelings was dead. The me that cared about you was dead. The me that had motivation was dead. I was a giant bug walking around in a fucking Edgar suit; consuming taking and receiving but never giving. ..Life became unmanageable for that person and living became an impossible daily task that required a constant routine of alcohol and other sedatives to attempt but seldom complete. Life was not a priority. Life was trips to a bar or liquor store  sometimes work sometimes the hospital back to the bar or liquor store and eventually a few hours of something resembling sleep. Rinse and fucking repeat. Mornings usually consisted of throwing up in the shower killing the shakes with a few drinks and sometimes eventually making it to whatever I HAD to do that day. The E.R. was too familiar and a 5 foot scope going down my throat was just another battle wound of a life long war. ..50 days ago I woke up in a strange room resembling my old Navy barracks. I was woken up by a man checking my vitals and feeding me a cocktail of pills. How the fuck did I end up in detox? I made a huge mistake. I was just drunk and made a spontaneous decision. I didn't belong here. Or did I? I was shuffled into a room with about 15 strangers. I had no belt no underwear and my pants were falling down because I had lost so much weight from not eating and throwing up. I just needed to sober up for a couple days then I could get back to just having a few drinks here or there like I could when I was 16. I met a few of these people in the room with me. Some drunks some tweakers some heroin addicts and some who liked a little bit of everything. A few veterans men women black white poor and rich. The thing that stuck out to me as I talked to these people was how fucking similar their lives were to mine. I wasn't alone anymore but I was better than them and I didn't need this shit. So after two nights I checked out. ..46 days ago I was on my way to the bar. 4 days sober was enough and it was Friday after all. My boss said I could take up to 12 weeks of FMLA so I had plenty of time to get this shit under control. I saw a bunch of people smoking outside of a building next to my local bar and knew right away what it was. I thought "this is a great opportunity to go see how stupid Alcoholics Anonymous is so I can have a good excuse to drink again. It's an hour of my life and then I can justify going to the bar because this didn't work". I walked in and immediately felt at home. I felt better than I ever had walking into a bar full of friends. Nobody wanted anything from me though so something was up. Something was up! Once again I found myself in a room of random people that were walking and talking mirror images of me. People who had lost relationships jobs money dignity and the real them. But they were fucking happy! What? ..In the last 46 days I kept going back to that room with the happy people. Every day. I've met people that have genuinely and permanently changed my life. I've taken control of that person that was killing the real me and parted ways with him. I feel again. Not always good but it's real. That smile you see now is the most genuine smile you've ever fucking seen in your life. That fear and that loneliness that was so real and consumed my days has become something that pops up only once in a while and doesn't have the power to drive me and my decisions any longer. ..In the last 24 hours I've lived another day of life. A life I cherish and respect. A life no longer fueled by fear and numbness. A life that's a constant work in progress rather that a constant dismantlement. ..I didn't write this for well wishes or attaboys. I didn't write this to tell you to stop drinking. I wrote this because it's uncomfortable and my life was in shambles and because if anyone who actually reads this crazy rambling is struggling with something - anything - in their lives maybe these words will help them find the motivation to change their lives and the willingness to take life back. ..PM_me_your_jeep Alcoholic,12,4wv1qq,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/4wv1qq/50_days_seemed_like_such_an_impossible_number/,6,2016-08-09T03:50:23
ALBININATOR,My thoughts on the marijuana maintenance plan...,So I know that somewhere in the BB it talks about some people needing outside help. ..I used to go to a meeting with a guy who had been sober for 25 years and was struggling with depression and was working very closely with a psychiatrist to help him out with that. ..When my sponsor with 22 years sober had major dental work done he took a very minimal amount of pain killers(and I had to hear him bitch about how much pain he was in for like 3 days)...I knew a lady with 5 years that needed some outside help with add. So she seen a psychiatrist for it. And then shortly after that I ran into someone with 3 years sober that had similar issues. ..What all those people I'd talked to had in common is they were very concerned about their sobriety when it came to seeking "outside help"...In my opinion when someone considers smoking weed as seeking outside help...They are forgetting about all the things that go into effectively treating an actual real life mental disorder(i.e. depression & anxiety). I get it pharmaceutical medications in a lot of cases are a lot more dangerous for you than a little bit of herb. ..But when you decide to ingest I mind altering substance while completely disregarding all of the other things that go into treating anxiety & depression then you are definitely setting yourself up for failure. ..Maybe in a world where you could work closely with a psychiatrist to help you consume a minimal amount of specific cannibaniods that have a minimal amount of psychoactive properties...Maybe it would fall under the "seeking outside help" category...But we do not live in that world. So just please stop with trying to rationalize your disease carrying over into other mind altering substances as "seeking outside help". That's not what AA was ever suppose to be about. AA is about being free of ALL MIND ALTERING SUBSTANCES. I know lots of people that went out on pot...I've never heard any one say they've been sober for 20+ years thanks to the pot... ,1,4vpmji,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/4vpmji/my_thoughts_on_the_marijuana_maintenance_plan/,5,2016-08-01T20:03:59
left_clique,Struggling with situational anxiety,I find myself struggling with anxiety about a job change (new consulting business start-up) and fears of economic insecurity.  Has started to adversely affect my fitness routine.  Also some physiological symptoms like stomach upset.  Any suggestions and ideas from your experience handling anxiety?  No where close to sobriety-threatening thank God!,2,4vea23,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/4vea23/struggling_with_situational_anxiety/,1,2016-07-30T18:14:51
LegitKEG,Feelings toward meetings?,Hi guys .I didn't see anything in the sidebar so I hope this is okay... ..While I myself have never experienced alcoholism or other substance use issues I have multiple family members who have and I have watched as they (and others around them) struggle as a result. ..I'm currently taking a substance abuse/addictive disorders class..Part of my class is writing a paper about AA (or similar group) meetings. I wanted to focus on the perceptions and the reality of them. Are any of you willing to comment or even PM me what you expected going into your first meeting vs what happened and where you are now? .,2,4urdgh,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/4urdgh/feelings_toward_meetings/,18,2016-07-26T18:32:22
gofro1920,Living with an Alcoholic. Need Advice,I'm not sure if this is the right subreddit to post this question but I'm going to post it anyway. Sorry if this is the wrong place...A friend of a friend and I just moved in to an apartment and I was somewhat aware of his struggle with alcohol. What I didn't realize was how severe his struggle is. It was obvious he loves to drink and be social but it wasn't obvious as to what happens when he drinks alone (and no one really does... he's alone). Once he starts he's not stopping... not even for a 8:30 am conference call the next morning. He hasn't been to work AT ALL this week... His boss made him sign a contract that said he would be sober for the next 90 days and this is the third time his violated it and I'm now concerned he might not have a job Monday. ..Since we moved in (three days ago) it's now apparent how much he needs help and how much I don't know how to handle this situation. ..The 1/2 half gallon of whiskey I had in one of my moving boxes was bone dry when I got home the first night in the apartment... It was clear who drank it... but my new roommate "wasnt drinking" at the time so it made me question if I was crazy...I'm worried about him being violent and destructive. Here's the advice I'm seeking - how do I go about this situation? I want him to get help but I'm not sure how to go about that...,3,4t7lhi,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/4t7lhi/living_with_an_alcoholic_need_advice/,5,2016-07-16T21:46:23
S1lence_1,9 years Poof!,Not going to go into a long and excuse ridden story here. I spent the last 9 years of my life sober and all of a sudden something inside me asked "what would 1 night of relief hurt" while my wife was out of town?."Relief" being a drink. And I wasn't strong enough to resist. I wish I could say I was back to day 1 but since that drink I haven't even gotten that far. I can feel my thought process changing now and reverting back to the selfish and withdrawn personality I have fought so hard to overcome because my wife deserves so much better..I pray that soon I find my strength. The accepted thing I cannot change. Wisdom is not enough because I KNOW the difference. ..No Alcolohic can easily escape their addiction until they truly embrace the fact that the consequences of drinking are far more horrific than anY reward they may feel when they drink. I know this it is my creed and still I struggle...I don't make this post because I want support. sympathy or even response. I make this post because if YOU haven't  taken the break from XX years of sobriety I want you to know that it's just 1 drink away and you will NOT be back to day 1. It's worse than that.,13,4npfmd,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/4npfmd/9_years_poof/,13,2016-06-12T04:11:05
kbradham,Anxiety around the third step prayer.,Hey everyone. Like many other people in AA the God thing is kind of off-putting for me. I like the idea of God as you understand him GOD (Group of drunks). All that stuff to remind us that it doesn't have to be the Judeo-Christian God....Buuuut I've been working with my sponsor and we're about to do the third step prayer. This is my first time trying to work the program and I don't want to half-ass it but it's difficult for me to really give myself over to a higher power because my higher power isn't really defined for me yet....I think a big part of it is the whole "and to do with me as Thou wilt." That *sounds* fantastic! I'm just very caught up in the nuts and bolts of it all. Obviously I'm not going to wake up with a checklist from God on what to do but yeah...Anyone else struggle with this? I really want to do this and get onto my fourth step but I don't want to fake it. Thanks,6,4lwqib,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/4lwqib/anxiety_around_the_third_step_prayer/,14,2016-05-31T14:33:34
pinupple,How can I combat feelings of not being good enough?,I've been struggling a lot at work lately with feeling like I mess everything up or that I'm not good enough. Logically I know I'm doing a great job but it's the type of place that acknowledges only mistakes so I become fixated on those and allow them to taint my entire view of my work performance. .It's become increasingly difficult to come into work lately I'm sobbing on the way in the car when I'm here I'm tip toe-ing around waiting for the next criticism to come. .Does anyone have any suggestions on how to remind myself that I'm doing okay and that I'm not a complete and utter failure?,3,4kuf45,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/4kuf45/how_can_i_combat_feelings_of_not_being_good_enough/,19,2016-05-24T11:48:00
alcoholicnamedsteve,Making amends,Thought this might be a good read. I'm struggling w how to make amends hence my interest peaked. ,3,4k4nea,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/4k4nea/making_amends/,7,2016-05-19T16:52:45
rdvt4g,10 years in and struggling with the god thing. Again.,This is how I explained it to my best friend in recovery. I chose dog meat because I knew the idea would upset him. ..... A man is sick and dying. He is taken in by a group of people that offer him help. He decides he wants to live. They love him and nurse himand give him a whole new plan for living. But they nursed him back to health with dog meat. At first he did not want to eat it but he was desperate. Over time as he healed he came to not mind it so much and even looked forward to certain recipes. His life was remarkably transformed. He began helping others but eventually he started to question the whole dog meat thing. The more he thought about it the less he could stand it. the people around him just kept on loving him but kept right on serving dog meat. He doesn't currently eat the dog meat anymore and tries desperately not to mention it but it has become a very sore subject between him and his friends. ..Can of worms - open.,5,4jyda6,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/4jyda6/10_years_in_and_struggling_with_the_god_thing/,11,2016-05-18T15:12:12
janewolf,Kombucha and AA?,I'm Jane and I'm an alcoholic...I have recently become infatuated with kombucha. As a recovering alcoholic part of the struggle is finding something that tastes good to drink that isn't water (or booze). I recently found out that kombucha has trace amounts of alcohol in it. However I've never felt buzzed after drinking it...What are y'all's opinions on it? Should I stop drinking it and find another favorite drink? Should I stop if I begin to rely on it because of the trace amounts of alcohol? What would you do or what would your sponsor likely tell you?..I'm not looking for loopholes by drinking fermented tea with trace amounts of alcohol in it. I am trying to be as honest and sincere in my recovery in order to hopefully prevent a relapse in the future. I'm trying to do everything the best way I can...Any advice input or opinions would be greatly appreciated. ,5,4js8bv,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/4js8bv/kombucha_and_aa/,21,2016-05-17T14:00:48
Imseventhirty,Have you ever relapsed and how long did it last? How did you get back to being sober? I'm struggling right now.,I relapsed a few months ago and have been struggling to get days back. Now I have 23 days but I still feel like drinking . Does the obsession go away?   I know it does . I'm on steps 123 and pray every morning go to meetings every day.,4,4jm4rn,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/4jm4rn/have_you_ever_relapsed_and_how_long_did_it_last/,23,2016-05-16T13:05:30
Sprint_Sprite,6 Days Sober,I don't have any recent alcoholic horror stories.  My "rock bottom" was fairly anti-climactic but rock bottom is whenever you decide to quit digging...I am a 30 year old stay at home mom of two tots; educated high functioning sneaky and sly.  I was going through 5-6 bottles of wine per week which is too much for me (5'5 105 lbs).  ..I didn't drink and drive I'm not an angry drunk.  I have gotten a bit too silly and chatty (and perhaps a bit shit-talky at times) and embarrassed myself at a neighbor's BBQ or dinner party but nothing classically indicitive of alcoholism...I'm not even sure I'm an alcoholic. I'm not committed to giving up wine forever but right now I am reaching for a substance to avoid dealing with my stress.  Stress is hard.  Substances are easy.  And as long as I'm doing that I'm not using the necessary coping skills I will need to teach my kids.  I realized during my last hangover that I myself don't have these coping skills yet.  I have a lot of work to do...I'm abstaining from alcohol until I have successfully developed and utilized the tools we need to get through life when life is raining shit upon us.  I don't have an end date.  I may never pick up another drink.  All I know now is I'm not drinking because I abuse substances to avoid stressful situations...6 days sober and I already feel much better.  I had a few triggers this week:.1. Disagreement with my husband.2. Watching people sip wine on TV.3. While Cooking.4. Money problems..I managed to avoid the drink each time so far.  There is a nearly empty bottle of my favorite Sauvignon Blanc in the fridge and it brings me comfort to know it is there and that I don't want it...I had kept my excessive drinking me a secret from my husband- who occasionally drinks but has never been drunk smoked a cigarette gotten a tattoo (a very straight edges in-control type of guy) who does not understand addiction (but was with me through an addiction to marijuana when we met and stood by me while I struggled to give t up.In order to be with him).  I was afraid he would lose respect for me. I was afraid he would worry about me on top of the copious amount of stress he is already under...Last night I came clean to him and admitted that I had been secretly drinking and hiding the evidence.  He was loving and kind.  ..It's our secrets that keep us sick.,6,4j8i79,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/4j8i79/6_days_sober/,8,2016-05-13T17:28:37
blenderboy5,Room for Atheists in AA?,Hey everyone. I'm new to this I know I have a drinking problem and I think having a support community will make it easier to finally kick. However I'm an atheist. I have nothing against religion but I don't believe in any gods nor do I have any interest in believing in any god. I find that a lot of AA is based in faith in a god and I can't be the only person who struggles with this. How have other atheists (or agnostics etc) dealt with this? I'm very serious about quitting alcohol but I don't subscribe to a religion. Hope I can get some help.,10,4igcvt,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/4igcvt/room_for_atheists_in_aa/,18,2016-05-08T17:04:41
IamRenn,I'm 4 days sober but struggling. How did you distract yourself?,I've done 5 jigsaws and have blisters on my hands from writing. What the hell do sober people do with their time?,10,4g08ur,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/4g08ur/im_4_days_sober_but_struggling_how_did_you/,20,2016-04-22T16:06:11
stanimal42,1 year sober and never going back,Part 1 the beginning..You might say that I am not as extreme of an alcoholic as some.  I started drinking at the age of 15. I remember going over to a friends house for a birthday party.  The were all over on the side of the house with a beer bong constructed of a rubber bicycle tube attached to a funnel.  I had never had alcohol before that.  I probably took down two beers and had a blast.  Since then alcohol was a party drug.  Only on weekends and never alone.  Played football and baseball in college.  Partied on the weekends but only after the game never during the week.  After college the stress begins.  Job bills new people boss and travel.  I'll never forget the first time I went to the liquor store and drank at home alone one night after work in my home.  I suddenly dawned on me that I could drink whenever I wanted to.  Then came the daily drinks after work during lunch and sometimes at my desk in a concealed coffee cup with a top.  Thinking back my colleagues had to smell it on me.  After getting married and having kids I was drinking all the time.  Take the trash out and guzzle a few beers or vodka out of the refrigerator in the garage.  Waiting until the family went to sleep to crack another beer wine or whiskey.  Before long I knew I had a problem.  Like many of you I tried to quit a few times then convinced myself I could control it.....ha...like most alcoholics do.  I must have tried to quit a dozen times.  Sad to say peer pressure was the biggest culprit.  Going to a friends house on the weekends with the family for a bbq.  I would get offered a beer and I felt like I couldn't let this guy down.....he wouldn't want to be my friend any more if I didn't take up the offer.  Throughout the course of my marriage it seemed like 95% of our arguments were when I had a few drinks.  It started to take a toll on us.  Fast forward a few years and I finally woke up and said no more.  Actually it was the day before.  A family had invited us to go on a boating trip for a few days.  My wife didn't want to go with our young kids because she knew I would be drinking the entire time with the other guys that are also heavy drinkers.  We declined with the excuse that we had something else going on that weekend.  I then realized I was going to deprive my family of a memorable weekend on the lake all because I couldn't do it sober.  How selfish.  It was then I realized this thing had control over me.  I finally put it behind me forever.  It was like a huge monkey off my back.  No more hang overs no more fights with my wife no more depression no more anxiety No more beer belly and on and on and on...Part 2 Getting Sober..The first 3 days were brutal.  I couldn't stop thinking about it.  Could I treat myself to just one more.  Driving by the local watering holes on the way home just thinking how good a cold beer would taste.  I constantly reminded myself of the horrible feeling of hangovers are and the terrible regret I feel when I let myself down.  Each day was a little easier.  Day 3 was the most difficult for some reason.  In previous attempts I would go to a party and get a dark beer bottle go to the bathroom....poor out the beer and fill it with water.  This way people wouldn't ask me why I wasn't drinking.  Now I am over it.  I am doing it for me and my family.  I don't announce to the world I am not drinking I just say "no I'm good" or "No thanks".  If someone asks why I'm not drinking I just tell them I'm not in the mood to drink.  It's funny though.  I think we always feel like people are watching us and really care about our drinking.  I have found that people really don't care and it's not a big deal.  ..Part 3 The sober life..My life has changed so much for the better.  Once you give up alcohol it's like the handcuffs have been unlocked.  So much more time on my hands more time with my family golfing and work is so much easier now.  My income has increased significantly I'm in sales.  Maybe because I have more energy and without realizing it I am contacting more clients and in tune with the field of potential (Higher Power).  I can't ever imagine a life bogged down by alcohol.  Wish I would have realized it earlier in life but I am glad I have a lot of good years ahead of me.  To those struggling with relapse.  Just have faith.  You will get there if you want to be sober you will be.  Sometimes we just have to let it run it's course but in the end if you want it bad enough you will achieve.  I know it sounds cliche but life is so much better and wonderful without the booze.,12,4fpni7,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/4fpni7/1_year_sober_and_never_going_back/,6,2016-04-20T17:26:26
stmv77,I guess I'm lucky...,I'm not lucky. But I have only myself to blame for what's going on. I have no inclination to drink. It's in fact the last thing I want to do. But I'm waiting to see what I'll be charged with. In a sense the drink isn't what'll kill me. It's the anxiety of not knowing what comes next. ..I'm a grad student so waiting is taking its toll on my concentration. I was sober for about two years starting in 2013 but I went back out and like an old friend from the program told me without knowing it was going to be applicable to me it only gets worse whereas staying in means things only get better...I've been back in meetings since last week. I'm shopping around for a new home group and will eventually seek a sponsor once I find the right fit. ..For those of you who are new to the program I can only say be strong. Take that with a grain of salt because I've been in out and back again but there are so many things you learn in the program that repair that part of you that's left wrecked. I can regret feel sorry for myself and complain all day about my situation but the root of AA is that there's always hope. You learn that half measures avail us nothing and when standing at the turning point giving yourself over to care of God or however you understand your higher power is the way to figure out what's next and to receive the  strength to carry out that plan...So as a newcomer to this sub for all those who are struggling out there as I have and am much love. Be strong. Don't give into temptation. Don't give into the darker aspects of yourself that let you believe it's easier when you just take the first drink. ..I'm off to a meeting. ,7,4cnfqe,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/4cnfqe/i_guess_im_lucky/,4,2016-03-30T19:34:35
thyme4changes,One week sober and hopefully many years more to come.,Yesterday was a hard day.  My grandfather passed away and I was struggling.  So I decided it was a pretty good time to go out and try an AA meeting.  It was open discussion so I just sat and listened.  I did get a 24hour chip.  I look forward to going back as the people there really understand and the discussion was very enlightening.  It's nice to know I'm not alone.,19,4bhadj,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/4bhadj/one_week_sober_and_hopefully_many_years_more_to/,9,2016-03-22T09:02:57
mordo212,Damnit I just went out,I just went out and had 3 Mai thais and then picked up a bottle of Jager on my way home.   I had 39 days but I have been struggling with the God part of all this.    Fuck.   ,1,4a2buc,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/4a2buc/damnit_i_just_went_out/,0,2016-03-11T22:49:12
[deleted],Agnostic and Struggling,[removed],1,49w6n7,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/49w6n7/agnostic_and_struggling/,0,2016-03-10T18:44:34
Pytwd,Struggle with AA on a philosophical level,[removed],1,464zog,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/464zog/struggle_with_aa_on_a_philosophical_level/,0,2016-02-16T17:28:41
TheOriginalKnockoff,Am I crazy?,First off let me say that I am beyond grateful for AA. The program has saved my life no doubt about it. I love my sponsor. But lately I've been feeling apathetic towards meetings and such as a whole. Maybe it's my location but there's a certain level of clique-iness that I'm having trouble working around..    I have been in the program for almost three years sober for almost two and a half. Most people in the program are lovely but maybe....insincere? I have people telling me they love me after meeting me twice but they can't get my name right. My facebook feed is littered with people in the program for one hanging out and socializing and I haven't found my crowd. People will say "Oh we need to hang out." "Oh I'll call you." And they never call. .    For my part I am shy and reserved but friendly. I have a hard time opening up and speaking at meetings because of my inner isolationist. Another reason I don't share much is because when I was first getting sober (struggling) there was one woman (who can't share at a meeting without mentioning how young she was when she got sober) who acting appalled and disgusted that I had relapsed..    I'm sorry if I seem ungracious I've just been dreading meetings and am sick of feeling like the fifth wheel. I hate feeling this way about such a great program. Has anyone else ever felt this way? And how did you overcome it?,4,44zt2z,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/44zt2z/am_i_crazy/,15,2016-02-09T19:07:20
AAThrowawayDave,Considering attending my first meeting,There is an AA meeting at noon that I want to attend but I'm very nervous. Do I have anything to worry about? Should I wait until I feel more comfortable with it? I'm struggling and I'm not sure what to do. ,7,44xhg5,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/44xhg5/considering_attending_my_first_meeting/,11,2016-02-09T11:34:54
jhenz616,I don't know if I'm an alcoholic...??,Ok so I'm using my cell phone and just had a very long post started and my app crashed!! So here it goes again!..Ok so I'm aware that there are multiple different types of alcoholics I'm sure I fall into the social binge drinking category somewhere. I often go two or three weeks without a drink and unless its subconsciously I don't crave alcohol during those times. So the thing is when I do drink I sometimes drink to the point of being hungover for what seems like a week (now that I'm typing this and reading it at the same time it kinda seems obvious that I at least have some issues with drinking LoL!). During that week of being hungover I very often tell myself and my wife the classic "I'm never going to drink again!!" quote to which I get the classic response from my wife "I'll believe it when I see it!". The thing is that I truly do mean it. I go a couple of weeks not drinking (I do abstain from drinking for other reasons other than being hungover just FYI)  feel a lot better (hangover long gone) and my buddies call me up and are ready to hit the town.... cycle repeats! I somehow forget how awful I felt the last time I did this to myself and do it all over again...I have a couple of best buddies of 15 or 20 years that are my accomplices in crime (drinking.... and other activities LoL!). They don't struggle with the guilt of their drinking habits the way I do they don't believe they have a problem or me for that matter. They tell me that I shouldn't be so hard on myself etc etc etc. Now I know that the people you choose to associate with sometimes can be the problem but these are the guys I grew up with. ..I'm sure there is more background that I'm leaving out. I'll say again that now that I've typed this out there is obviously an issue is it alcoholism? I don't know. Is it possible to just be so hard on yourself with guilt that you feel like your an alcoholic even though your not?..Thank for the advice folks!   ..Never been in trouble for drinking or anything like that btw. ,2,40ftsp,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/40ftsp/i_dont_know_if_im_an_alcoholic/,15,2016-01-11T03:07:38
saddestgirlofalltime,Feeling unwelcome in AA lately,Hi all.  Feel like i have to squeal on myself.  I've been feeling unwelcome at a specific AA group lately.  Part of me knows it's all in my head which is why I'm posting here but when it's in my head it feels like it's authentic and not just happening in my head.  I attend a group that has very strong opinions (referred to in my geographic area as "big book thumpers") about how a person should work the program - exclusively from the big book with a very involved sponsor (which feels to me like enmeshment) and completing all the steps very early in recovery in one sitting (all steps completed in one day) followed by a heavy push for immediate sponsorship of other alcoholics (the end result being people with 2-3 months of sobriety sponsoring multiple people).  All of that "party line" makes me extremely uncomfortable (Like squeamish like the way the guy with the white hair in the movie Contact with jodie foster makes me feel).  I did not get sober that way i've been sober for a little over two years i feel sober and not dry and i find it very intimidating to hear that i got sober the "wrong" way and feel threatened that one day i'll drink again b/c i got sober this "wrong" way.  I know the simplest and most obvious solution is to stop going to this particular meeting.  i keep going b/c my social group that i do most of my fellowshipping outside of AA with belongs to this group.  So in my disordered all or nothing thinking mind the solution is stop going to AA completely.  I do believe AA got me sober and will keep me sober and I need to stop letting this feeling undermine my desire to attend meetings.  Thanks all.  ..Edit - follow up.  Thanks all for the suggestions to try new meetings.  While the area I live in is pretty dense with meetings I've struggled with finding a meeting I feel comfortable at. I think i needed this nudge to really make me see that I need to put more energy into finding a new meeting.   ,9,3zyj5t,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/3zyj5t/feeling_unwelcome_in_aa_lately/,25,2016-01-07T19:42:48
filmdude,For those who are struggling with sexual addiction... There is hope,/r/sexAA..This is a new sub that could use some love.  ..We believe that the Twelve Steps of AA offer a program of recovery from sexual addiction.  We are not affiliated with AA but are grateful to them for letting us borrow their ideas...Thanks for letting me post here!,0,3ytvgw,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/3ytvgw/for_those_who_are_struggling_with_sexual/,2,2015-12-30T16:04:17
babynumberuno,My husband is struggling with alcoholism how do I help him?,I've been with him 6 years and I've known about his alcohol issues for a long time (we were young when we met and we were both initially heavy drinkers). He doesn't come home drunk or get mean or anything like that (and actually hasn't been drunk in over a year).  He does  however  feel an urge to drink  and in an effort to stop himself has asked me to hold onto all IDs car keys  etc and keep them in a fingerprinted safe (only I can unlock it). How else do I help him? I can't keep his ID and keys prisoner for forever  and he's asked me to never let him leave the house alone (a lot of places don't ID him because he's obviously not underage). I'm so proud of him for taking this step and asking me to help protect him from himself  and we're talking about rehab but we don't have $21000 to spend for a 10 day stay. Going into debt is not an option in order to help pay either. Any suggestions?..EDIT: Thank you everyone  he's going to start going to AA Meetings next week! He wants me to hang onto the keys and IDs for now to help him initially. In the mean time I introduced him to reddit (I showed him this post)  got him an account and subscribed him to a few subs like this. Hopefully all of it combined will help!  Thank you for the support and advice everyone! ,3,3u968m,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/3u968m/my_husband_is_struggling_with_alcoholism_how_do_i/,20,2015-11-25T14:38:44
skipdo,Attraction or Promotion?,I've been struggling with this in the past few weeks. I love the idea of what u/wedorecover12 is doing. I love the availability of speaker "tapes". It is carrying the message which is how we survive/stay sober. However the constant submissions feels like advertisement and promotion which isn't a good thing. You can take a quick glance at their facebook page as well and it's the same thing (actually looks like they have is automatically submitting the same post over and over). If you view this subreddit alone you'll see what I'm talking about. ..Should the mods be looking at this? Is something like this acceptable for this subreddit? Am I totally crazy and alone on this one?  ,4,3n8z9j,https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/3n8z9j/attraction_or_promotion/,8,2015-10-02T13:28:34
robostoph,How to find the right meeting?,Hello first off this isn't for me but a buddy. Today a friend of mine broke down. And it all sounded very familiar because my brother is in the program. I grew up watching his struggle with alcohol and substance abuse. I've also watched him have success with his on again off again relationship with AA (mostly on these days). Anyway i let my friend talk and he cant just be happy alone. And with out getting to in depth it all came down to him needing an escape from him self. I danced around it because in my experience people get really defensive if they are confronted about being an alcoholic. But ultimately i suggested AA And it took a while and a few bro tears but he was really receptive. I told him i would go with him sit out side if need be. I told him I would find a meeting and we could go together. I really just want him to get through the door even if he has to lean on me to get there. But after looking into it. Their are all these different "meeting types". Like "open speaker nonsmoker" i think if i can find a meeting for this weekend it will increase the chances of him actually going. Will any old open meeting be okay for a new guy? Thanks in advance! Hope this is okay here,3,3hsyxo,http://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/3hsyxo/how_to_find_the_right_meeting/,5,2015-08-20T23:21:49
Rebelde80,After 3 years I'm confused with the program,I'm currently a member of Alcoholics Anonymous but I'm struggling. I was born and raised in an unorthodox Christian cult. While attending AA meetings I have many dejavu moments. I don't think AA in itself is a cult but it reminds me of one. I'm literally in emotional pain...The "us versus them" mentality doesn't vibe with me. As a child I was taught that I was not part of the world but that I had to live in it. Consequently whenever I go out with normal non-AA people I don't feel connected. I feel like I live among them but I don't feel like one of them. ..After 3 years it's weird to me that AA has it's own language. It's weird to me that a lot of my AA friends are unable to discuss their lives without using AA's nomenclature. ..So for instance instead of saying "I had an awful day at work and told of a coworker" they'll say "I was in defect today and acted on a resentment that I'll now have to make an amend for." To a non-AA this sounds like crazy talk. And you know what? It sort of is...Sure I understand that I create all of my problems. I get it. But I'm sick of going to meetings where I'm told that I'm selfish and self centered and that I can't rely on my own understanding. I'm sick of being told AA is the only way. Come on seriously? The Big Book was published in the late 30s was not peer reviewed by the medical community and has not been revised since then to include new scientific research on addiction. And you're going to tell me it's the end all to this problem?..The whole emphasis on spirituality is weird too. You're going to tell me that of all the diseases that exist I have the only one that's spiritual? The logical odds of that occurring are extremely slim. I get the three part approach to this disease. But why insist on spiritual when psychological seems to fit better?..And what bothers me the most is the identity issue. Creating a new identity is what high control groups use to control people. Why even identify as an AA? Why not be simply somebody who doesn't drink? While a diabetic spends a big part of their life fighting their disease I doubt that diabetes is as a large a makeup of their identity than alcoholism is for us. And that bothers me. In a weird way I think it's keeping me sick...All of this became more apparent to me when I attended a meeting at a sister fellowship last night. I attended a CODA meeting and it struck me by the language used that they view themselves as normal people struggling with codependency. Not as codependents first members of CODA second and normal people last. At no point did I hear that I was selfish and self centered and that I couldn't rely on my own understanding. I felt so good there...But it left me wishing AA was more like that. I'm just so confused and lost right now.,3,3hlb8m,http://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/3hlb8m/after_3_years_im_confused_with_the_program/,10,2015-08-19T11:02:36
thottiefinesse,Struggling here.,Hey guys...9 months of sobriety. I'm struggling right now. I haven't had a physical drink but emotionally I'm gone...I've been to one meeting in the past week and a half and will be at one after work tomorrow. I don't know what's going on with me. My sponsor is out of town. My SO doesn't understand alcoholism and his skepticism is wearing off on me though I know it's not intentional and I haven't told him that...I haven't shared at a meeting in a while. I feel apart from my homegroup. Instead I've found myself fantasizing about drugs and alcohol. What should I be doing? Please send something positive. Remind me why I'm here and what got me to this point. ..,8,3fpas9,http://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/3fpas9/struggling_here/,24,2015-08-03T23:03:47
[deleted],not an alcoholic but need some advice,so i have started seeing a girl who is in AA. she apparently had a big problem (day drinking every day driving and showing up to work drunk) but a drunk driving accident put her in the program and she has been sober for a little while (8 months then a relapse but 4 months since). i had a bit of a problem with alcohol after my divorce but realized that wasn't who i was and forced myself to learn self discipline. it was an incredibly hard struggle but i can drink responsibly while having fun and have been distancing myself from my friends that were problem drinkers. my main problem was how much of my life revolves around alcohol. i work at a bar that is known for their high end beer selection my brother manages a brewery close friends own a beer distributor other friends at a winery. i have noticed since i started talking to this girl that every social event i go to alcohol is at least abundant if not the focal point. i am worried that hanging out with me could lead her down the path to relapse. she says she is fine with it and doesn't mind being around it or talking about it. i try not to dwell on alcohol and be sensitive and supportive but it's in my nature to be a worrier. i care about this girl and if she says she can't be around me for her own good i would understand but i don't think either of us want that. anyone who has been in the program have any advice for me?,1,3ej744,http://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/3ej744/not_an_alcoholic_but_need_some_advice/,1,2015-07-25T01:25:22
Jakecman,23 [M] Struggling with alcoholism first time user here any advice?,So as the title says I'm a 23 year-old male who is currently struggling with my alcoholism. I started drinking when I was a senior in high school at 17 and from then till I was 18 I progressively increased my habits to the point where I can longer make it thru the week without a drink. At first I was drinking with peers but currently I drink more often alone and binge drink when i do...On top of that I've been struggling with severe depression and I'm positive my frequent alcohol use is severely tampering with my mental health. I've been trying to quit drinking for the past 2 years the most I've been able to accomplish sober was 1 month. I normally drink a few fifths a week and I can feel the physical effects on my body at all times. I'm not sure where else to turn. I have a family who loves me a girlfriend of 4 years who adores me and friends who I can turn to yet I'm constantly cutting all contact with everyone who matters to me. ..Even now I'm drunk. Went to my local gas station to get a fifth of their cheapest vodka. I live in a very drunk (per capita) city and I don't want to go to an AA meeting. I hate public speaking and I think I would feel very out of place. I'm just mostly curious if anyone has any tips on quitting that they've found successful. I am very embarrassed at how much I drink life has been very very kind to me but struggling with my depression and alcoholism may just ruin me. Any help would be appreciated. Thanks,3,3efnsr,http://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/3efnsr/23_m_struggling_with_alcoholism_first_time_user/,10,2015-07-24T07:35:51
[deleted],Getting sober with Concerta,Hey Guys! So I'm a college student and am trying to get sober again. I was sober for about 9 months and then relapsed. It's taken me about a year to get back into the rooms. Before alcohol became a problem and after it became a problem I have always struggled with focusing in class and as a result have been prescribed adderall vyvanse and now Concerta. These drugs truly work for me but for some reason now I want to drink when I take them. Right now I'm on the smaller dose of Concerta they make. I've already tried smoking cigarettes (I know not good) but it doesn't seem to curb my cravings. Is this a common side effect for others? I'm just scared that if I stop taking it my already tarnished collegiate academic career that I've worked so hard to repair will suffer once again but on the flip side I can't seem to stay sober more than a couple days when taking it. I don't know what to do. Thank you everyone here. This is a great sub!,5,3djwoy,http://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/3djwoy/getting_sober_with_concerta/,7,2015-07-16T17:34:13
[deleted],25 years,June 30th I had 25 years continuous sobriety. I just want to mention that it was and always will be a day at a time. Some days it was a minute at a time. If you are struggling like I was please keep coming it gets better beyond your wildest imagination! Everything works out.,1,3bwz9p,http://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/3bwz9p/25_years/,0,2015-07-02T17:01:47
bigwhitekendoll,Double diagnosis,Anyone struggling with alcoholism and mental illness?..31 year old gay guy here sober for 2  years. I feel like I'm on the verge of a major depressive episode and I'm feeling really alone. ,9,38m00w,http://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/38m00w/double_diagnosis/,13,2015-06-04T22:17:06
[deleted],Would it be inappropriate for me to give my copy of the Big Book to a coworker who confided in me? More inside,I'm kind of struggling the past few days. At work the other day a coworker confided in my she has a drinking problem. When she said it a lot of things clicked. Since being clean for a few years it hit me really hard this girl is becoming such a close friend of mine and it hurt my heart that I know what she's going through. I was thinking about bringing my copy to work and after we close just slipping it to her with a note or something. ..I think she would take it as intended I want to be a listening ear and support to her but I in no way want to push her into something because I know how that is. What do y'all think? Would it be a kind gesture as I mean it to be or could it send a negative message? We're the only two people most days and work together a lot so I don't want to make things weird/bad/negative in any way.,1,35jwsg,http://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/35jwsg/would_it_be_inappropriate_for_me_to_give_my_copy/,0,2015-05-10T22:08:39
hawk234,Struggling right now,I relapsed 5 days ago. I blew up my relationship. Shattered trust with every loved one I have. It's because I quit going to meetings and those character flaws I had been working on came back with a vengeance because I quit working on them. Don't be like me. Don't go back out it doesn't get better it gets worse. And I know it'll get better now that I'm in the meeting rooms again and have a sponsor again. I'm just struggling with the guilt and self loathing of all the lies I told leading to this relapse. Here's to one day at a time. Hoping I can get back to being someone I can love and respect as well as others. Thanks for your time and any advice is appreciated and welcomed.,4,3220go,http://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/3220go/struggling_right_now/,10,2015-04-09T19:00:48
Tacostacoseverywhere,Thanks for 5 Years.,I am a lurker I rarely voice any opinions or comments but I want to make sure people struggling know there is a way out...I can remember where I was anxious about going to sleep because I couldn't drink. Days where repeating a mantra that I wouldn't drink today like a broken record of my thoughts. At times this would occur well into my first few rounds as if there was a disconnect from my mind to my physical body making it impossible for my to will my hand to not pick up that glass.  These memories are just a few that make me grateful to be here today...All it took was: honesty about myself; open-mindedness and accepting that the way I was living was not conducive to being healthy or happy; and the willingness to follow some simple steps under the direction of someone who cared more about my life then my opinions. ..Again thanks.,10,2xn3pf,http://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/2xn3pf/thanks_for_5_years/,4,2015-03-02T00:29:40
skcwizard,My 1 year is Monday and havent been to meetings for a few weeks due to illness/holidays and feeling like I dont need them.,I havent been to a meeting since beginning of December after going 5 times a week for like 10 months.  I actually havent been this comfortable in sobriety as I have not going to meetings.  I have always struggled with the higher power as an agnostic and am questioning whether I need the program...Anyone ever feel this way?  What should I do?,7,2tg7wh,http://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/2tg7wh/my_1_year_is_monday_and_havent_been_to_meetings/,11,2015-01-23T17:02:59
jennytalias,Stages of grief,I've been without a drink for 111 days now and I still feel like I am stuck on step one of AA. I know that I am an alcoholic but I am still in the process coming to terms with it I suppose. ..I've been experiencing the stages of grief by cutting alcohol. Maybe that sounds severe but I can't help it. Be that as it may I am depressed...I struggle with depression anyway though. I am more communicative about my issues at this point. I meditate. I have hobbies. I feel much better about not dealing with the negative effects of alcohol. I am just discouraged to know that I won't ever enjoy a drink again. Can anyone here relate?,6,2s6egr,http://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/2s6egr/stages_of_grief/,10,2015-01-12T11:33:43
truuuuck,not alcoholic enough?,Today's day seven for me. I've been going to open meetings and sobriety for me has been sort of ... uncomplicated. My life has become immediately better. I'm not sure whether this is because the program is super effective or because I'm not a real alcoholic?..I sure feel like a real alcoholic and two weeks ago the prospect of sobriety seemed hilariously dubious and pretty remote to me. I'm still struggling with intense cravings and with diminishing withdrawal symptoms. The fact that I feel like I have to list my alcoholic resume seems weird... I don't say this all to rub it in anybody's face. It's scary. It's a barrier for me with regards to AA. I don't want to approach somebody or share at meetings because I don't want to be dismissed as a whiny baby or a hobbyist. I drank for eight years and can safely say that it ruined my life. Or maybe I'm just a manchild idiot who ruined my life and alcohol was a convenient scapegoat. I want to keep coming back; I like meetings. Should I like meetings? I feel like I shouldn't. I don't want to bother anybody with my problems if I'm not a 'real' alcoholic I don't want to waste the effort people might expend helping me if I don't need it if they're disdainful of me for being there or if there are other people who could legitimately use the help they're squandering on me. ..This is 100% an ego thing-- I don't ever want somebody to look at me and dismiss me as anything except what I am which is sincerely (I think?) a broken and hurt person trying to stop drinking. But maybe I don't need AA. ,8,2o0hs3,http://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/2o0hs3/not_alcoholic_enough/,19,2014-12-01T23:07:52
[deleted],Still struggling even with changes.,I submitted 2 months ago with a lot of tips and help. At the end of the day I'm still trapped. I tried finding AA meetings and found that they're only in Detroit. ..I opened up to my family closest friend and new s/o. The result is the same. I'm young and fun and obviously what I'm doing is part of your twenties and experiencing life. ..I just want for once for someone to reach out and say "I get it. I understand. You can experience this sober. So far nothing...I'm tired. I tried sober on my own and it hurts and is exhausting. ..I'm so fucking frustrated and angry that my reasons for drinking so heavily are starting to blend.,3,2l5fth,http://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/2l5fth/still_struggling_even_with_changes/,4,2014-11-03T06:54:21
howaminot,AA after 7 years . . .,Yay it's been 7 years without a drink or a drug! BUTT..Boo! there are new roadblocks that have arisen in my program.  Any other "middle aged" AAers struggle with any of this?  What's your experience?..I am young-ish in a big city and have been going to meetings sporadically for the last 4ish years - before that it was 1-3 mtgs/day.  I get frustrated hearing others share things that strike me as really unhealthy or judgmental and it makes it hard to get my butt in a chair.  I feel kind of unsafe or alienated a lot when I'm in a meeting.  ..I also see guys there that I remember totally preying on me and my littermates when I was a newcomer and it still makes me feel kind of ragey.  And they're still up to their old antics.  I'm aware of my role in these thoughts but still find it hard to make myself get to a darn meeting!  My sponsor suggested I really focus on compassion for others in the rooms (and myself) and I think that's a great start...My sobriety has been really real- lots of great things lots of hard things friends relapsing/dying and relationships changing. I'm definitely not the same lady that got sober years ago...In this city we talk about newcomers relapse and old timers and I don't feel like I get a lot of insight on the middle years.  Any thoughts?,8,2kph5g,http://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/2kph5g/aa_after_7_years/,8,2014-10-29T15:56:22
turboDog129,Struggling with alcohol.,I'm 30 years old becoming more and more self destructive regarding alcohol.  I used to hate everything about alcohol but somehow through the years I've become such a piece of shit drunken bastard...I'm responsible enough to where if I have work or school on a given day I won't drink before I go drive there or drive anytime drunk/buzzed for that matter.  But after school or work forget it.  I walk in and immediately go find whatever bottle is around.  On days I don't work or go to school I'm up by 6:30-7 (I'm an early bird) and already drunk by 8-8:30.  ..I go through at least a 12 pack a day and if there's liquor in the house even liquor I hate (like gin) it's going down at the same time.  I live with my girlfriend and I'm hurting our relationship with this behavior.  She drinks too but with much more control; some wine here a margarita there.  I also smoke about a pack and a half a day (but only 4 cigs or so today and yesterday as I'm trying not to be such a PoS). ..I smoked pot every day for 8-10 years and once I stopped for personal reasons this started.  So maybe I'm just replacing the pot with alcohol or maybe my tastes changed.  I honestly would start smoking pot again if it meant I could quit drinking.  ..I feel like I don't enjoy being myself anymore.  I'm in school for computer science/programming.  I used to play my guitars every day as an outlet and for the past few years or so they just collect dust with the exception of random nights.  I would love to play more to take myself away from this.  I was a much happier much more likable person when I played music and was smoking.  Being 30 is what scares me though;  I don't want to risk any legal trouble with pot at this age for the sake of my mental stability or happiness even though I really do think it balanced me out (chemical inbalances and such).  I'm in Austin TX and I mean some kid is facing life for hash brownies near here.   ..My sister has 3 degrees and obviously our parents (still together) are super proud.  I'm not jealous in any way because she deserves everything she's worked extremely hard.  They tell me they're proud of me too(because they're just awesome like that) but I would love make more of my life for THEM.  I just want to straighten my life out so when the time comes I can return all my parents' love and support for me and take care of them how I know they deserve...I guess I'm just looking for some advice from folks who have been here before.  Hope this wasn't too long and thanks for reading if you made it through.  ,7,27bqij,http://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/27bqij/struggling_with_alcohol/,6,2014-06-04T17:16:31
[deleted],Picked up my 24hr chip tonight.,It felt good.  I've been struggling with alcohol for about 11 years now.  The entire length of my 20s is a huge blur.  I managed to get into so much trouble  ruin so many relationships  and build a pretty bad reputation for myself.  After having yet another relationship end due to my drunken behavior and finally realizing I was the problem and needed change  I decided sobriety was necessary and I needed to change my life.  I know that from here on out staying away from alcohol  following steps and being sponsored is going to help my life out a lot.  It's exciting just thinking about seeing and enjoying life through the eyes of a sober man.,1,2798o9,http://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/2798o9/picked_up_my_24hr_chip_tonight/,0,2014-06-03T21:59:44
m3du5a,Important test of my sobriety this week,As of today I've been sober for 54 days which is a new world record. Every day is uncharted territory for me now. I've been going to meetings since early January and until my previous relapse I was sober for 37 days. ...This week I have a week off from work and these have been traditionally particularly dangerous times for me - often involving going away staying in cheap hotels ending up drinking enough vodka to seriously harm any normal person. Doing that was never my intention but it's always ended up being that way. That's what happened on my last relapse. I was intending to visit a theme park but came back 7 days later after spending the entire week in blackout. ...For some reason I had my big book with me when I was away during that relapse and for some reason I got it out and started reading it (and listening to it on a podcast when reading became too much of a struggle). It sunk in. One of the few things which I do remember from that week is looking into the mirror after struggling to keep down some vitamin B tablets and actually saying out loud "look at yourself" - I witnessed first-hand for the first time that I was an alcoholic of the hopeless variety which it talks about in the book. ...I got a sponsor and bought the big book back in January. I thought I'd made it - I had done everything that was asked. The problem is that I didn't read the book or call my sponsor. He didn't call me either. For this I am eternally grateful. I needed to go on my own journey to fully understand what step 1 was talking about. I'd had my rock bottoms - those were why I was in the rooms but I hadn't quite finished learning just how powerless I was and am. ...Since then I have been actually working the program. I have been calling my sponsor (though not often enough) calling other alcoholics trying my 90 in 90 reading literature praying in the morning (though I'm still not very good at that) and going through the steps. I'm feeling better physically and mentally. Life is still tough and definitely not beyond my wildest dreams yet but it is manageable. I even enjoy and look forwards to going to meetings now!...I will be going to at least one meeting a day next week perhaps visit some in different towns and cities. I hope that I can go along to my home group on Friday and proudly announce that I have 2 months. I've been warned that the disease will talk to me and taunt me into going back to the bottle because the days will not be filled with work. I'm confident that I can - right now I don't want to drink. I do have an alcoholic mind however so I'm ready for this week to be a challenge. ...I just wanted to write all of this down so that it's real and I've acknowledged the danger. Thanks very much for reading :) ,1,26dsp6,http://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/26dsp6/important_test_of_my_sobriety_this_week/,0,2014-05-24T12:11:44
strugglinginindiana,Struggling,I don't know where to begin.  I am a functional closet alcoholic.  I have been for the past 10 years...Due to the nature of my work and the small community that I live in I cannot join an in-person AA group.  It would be too risky and might jeopardize my career and reputation...So I thought I would try this as a means to vent and perhaps get some support...On a light night of drinking I will consume a half of a fifth of vodka.  On a heavy night I will consume the entire fifth...I am divorced and alone.  My divorce was not caused by my alcoholism; however my alcoholism has prevented me from having a meaningful relationship now that I am single...Each night I drink to the point that I have no memory of the night before when I wake up the next morning...When I try to take a night off and not drink I cannot sleep and sweat like I have run a marathon...Grief is the cause of my alcoholism.  ..I wish I knew how to flip a switch in me to make me stop drinking...I'm not sure why I am even typing any of this...I don't think I have ever been as emotionally and physically exhausted as I am right now...Help...,1,267kmm,http://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/267kmm/struggling/,0,2014-05-22T10:12:27
[deleted],Higher power question (kind of unusual),I've struggled with alcoholism for more than a decade and I recently started AA but I'm having a problem with the "higher power" facet...I'm typically a very strong atheist but I feel there's an innate human need to worship something or someone and look for guidance. In that vein I've developed a higher power. It's a certain figure of note with whom I have a pretty developed worship complex but his celebrity doesn't matter. My backup higher power is a very unknown individual but the same problem exists in her case...My problem is that this figure in question is himself an alcoholic. He is undeniably the only higher power I have in my life but he personally has very well-publicized alcoholism issues. As I brought up my only option for a "backup" higher power is also an alcoholic...I'm asking if this is a problem that can't be overcome or if it's possible to look to an alcoholic as a higher power when overcoming alcoholism. I don't feel it's possible to acquire a new higher power as my basis for worship is very limited to the specific characteristics this individual possesses (and it's not like you can just decide to pick up a new god in a day). Should I stick with my current higher power or should I focus on finding a new higher power to whom I should look for guidance?,5,1ziqnj,http://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/1ziqnj/higher_power_question_kind_of_unusual/,7,2014-03-04T05:57:47
